International Partners
International Partners
Old Dominion University (ODU) is a diverse, inclusive, forward-focused metropolitan research institution committed to building strong, sustainable international partnerships that enhance learning and scholarship for students, faculty, and staff. Classified as a Higher Research Activity Doctoral University by the Carnegie Classification, ODU brings together a global community representing nearly 100 countries.
ODU seeks mutually beneficial partnerships that support active collaboration, including virtual academic exchanges, in-person student mobility, and short-term faculty exchanges. International agreements are established through a clear process of consultation, negotiation, and approval in line with ODU policies, ensuring that each partnership advances the University’s internationalization goals.
Types of ODU International Agreements
Dual Degree Program Agreement (DDPA)
Agreement that allows students to earn an ODU degree and a degree offered by the international partner. Each institution recognizes academic credit earned in the other degree plans, thus shortening the duration of overall study for participating students. At completion, students are eligible for awarding of academic degrees issued separately by each institution. Students must apply and be accepted for study by each institution separately. Dual degrees are also referred to as double degrees. Dual degrees are not joint degrees.
Faculty Mobility Agreement (FMA)
Agreement established for the purpose of faculty teaching, studying, conducting research, or other forms of academic collaboration with an international partner.
Memorandum of Understanding (MOU)
Agreement that establishes a general form of academic collaboration with an international partner (e.g. university, research institute, center, or laboratory, NGO, etc.) in areas of mutual interest. MOUs - which are also referred to as "umbrella agreements" - are the initial step in establishing a partnership with international institutions. Establishment of agreements delineating specific forms of academic collaboration between international partners occurs after a MOU has been put in place.
Online Hybrid Articulation Agreement (OHAA)
Agreement that allows international partner students to combine online and on-campus study for an ODU academic certificate and/or degree.
Student and Faculty Mobility Agreement (SFMA)
Agreement established for the purpose of faculty and students participating together in study, research, or another form of academic collaboration with an international partner.
Student Mobility Agreement (SMA)
Agreement established for the purpose of students studying, conducting research, or participating in other forms of academic collaboration with an international partner.
Transfer Student Articulation Agreement (TSAA)
Agreement that allows international partner students to transfer credits earned at their home university towards an ODU academic degree. This form of agreement includes "credit matching" for particular area(s) of curricular study and degree program(s) at ODU and the home university. At times, these agreements are referred to as "2+2", "3+1", or "3+2" agreements in reference to the year(s) of academic credits that may be accepted for transfer. They are also referred to as "degree completion program" agreements.
Office of International Collaborations
