Individuals looking for a team are called "Free Agents" and can try:
Contacting a captain via IMLeagues.com
Adding yourself to a team that is looking for players
Waiting for a team captain to contact you
Showing up at venue during the regular season and asking to join a team which you are eligible for
There is no guarantee that you will be placed on a team, but we hope you try!
How much does it cost to play Intramural Sports at ODU?
Intramural Sports programs are included in student fees at ODU! The only exception to this policy is golf due to the use of an external facility.
What equipment do I need to play?
For most of the activities we offer, all necessary equipment will be provided. Several activities will require personal equipment brought by each player, such as shin guards for soccer and clubs for golf.
Please review the specific rules and policies for any activity to determine what equipment is needed and what attire is allowed to be worn during games.
Eligible Participants:
Must be enrolled continuously in 3 credit hours at ODU for the current semester.
ODU Faculty & Staff Members
Must have a valid membership to the Student Recreation Center.
Players must show a valid university ID to play in games. No experience is necessary to participate!
NOT Eligible:
Spouses or Partners of eligible members
Alumni or Former Students
Community Members with valid SRC Membership
Professional Athletes
Participants with professional experience will be ineligible for five (5) years from the date professional career ended. (This does not include try-outs for a professional team)
Guests & Visitors
Day Passes are NOT considered valid memberships for participation in Intramurals.
Certain Athletes
Some Sport Club members, Varsity Athletes, etc. may be ineligible. See Roster Rules for details.
Roster Rules
Players must be listed on the team roster on IMLeagues at game time to be signed-in.
Players CANNOT leave a team once they've played a game for that team.
Players CANNOT be added to a roster once the regular season has ended.
A player can only play for one (1) single-gender team, one (1) Greek League team, and one (1) Co-Rec team within a single sport season.
Teams CANNOT exceed the roster limit for the given sport.
Special Rules That Affect Player Eligibility:
Current Varsity Athletes
Current members of ODU varsity roster are not eligible to compete in the same, or similar, intramural sport(s) to the one(s) in which they compete at the varsity level.
Individuals who are trying out for an intercollegiate team but who are not on a permanent roster will be permitted to participate in that intramural sport until they are placed on a permanent roster, at which time, they are ineligible.
Red shirted athletes or anyone who practices with a team regularly but does not participate in intercollegiate competition will not be eligible to play that same or related sport.
Former Varsity Athletes
Any athlete, from any institution, will be ineligible to compete in that sport for the current academic school year that runs from August-July. Such individuals are limited to one (1) player per team roster after their eligibility is restored.
Greek League
Participants must be active members of the fraternity to be eligible.
If an organization has multiple teams, players may not be moved to and from teams.
Sport Club Members
Intramural rosters limit the number of Club Sport members from a sport, or related sport, on a team to ensure fair play.
Two (2) Sport Club members for single-gender sports.
Three (3) Sport Club members for Co-Rec sports. If there are three (3), there must be one (1) of another gender.
Leagues
What's a League?
Each activity may be separated into specific leagues based on skill level, gender, or participation requirements.
Recreational: This league is for teams and participants that want to play for fun.
Competitive: These leagues are meant for players that are approaching the game from a competitive perspective. Competitive leagues may be broken into A and B categories to further differentiate skill. A League is for highly skilled, competitive players. B League is for moderately skilled, competitive players.
Co-Rec: Teams in this league will be comprised of both female and male participants. The ratio of females and males will vary from sport to sport. (Co-Rec leagues may also have A, B, and C leagues for various skill levels.)
Women's: This league is reserved for female participants only. Sororities will play in this league.
Fraternity: This league is open to fraternities. For sports with less availability, fraternities may be limited to 1 team per sport.
Open: An Open League, Tournament, or Event is one that does not have any restriction on gender participation ratio.
Some league changes may occur for playoffs or other events. See Participant Manual for details.
Team Registration
All participants must create an account on imleagues.com/odu to signup and play in ODU Intramural sports. Once your account is created you will be able to log-in to view all of our program offerings. The initial log-in attempt will re-route you to the RecWell Portal to verify your status as a student, faculty, or staff member. Click the blue bar that says, "ODU MIDAS ID" to input your MIDAS username and password.
Team Names
When registering for team leagues and tournaments the captain may create a team name for their team's designation. Please be creative, we encourage unique team names with the following stipulations:
No vulgar, profane or derogatory language
Shorthand, initials, or slang words that violate will NOT be allowed
No references to drugs, alcohol, tobacco, or violence
No sexual references
No confusing terms such as BYE, Forfeit, or canceled, etc.
Please note, teams will not be allowed to compete while wearing team apparel with inappropriate names or pictures.
Don't have enough players for a team?
Teams can join the "Waitlist" if they are under the required number to participate and look to add Free Agents. If there is only one person is interested, they too can sign up as Free Agents and may be added or placed on a team.
Gender Inclusivity
We strive to create an inclusive and barrier-free environment for all participants. When creating an IMLeagues account, all participants are asked to declare a gender identity. We support participants' right to play in sports and leagues that are consistent with their gender expression and identity. If you wish to alter the gender identity on your account profile after it has been created, you must do so in the "Account" section of IMLeagues.com prior to being on site for a game. Abuse of this policy results in strong disciplinary action. See Participant Manual for details.
