Why Give
There is a momentum here
We are generating success after success at Old Dominion University. Naming new schools and announcing new partnerships to address urgent needs for our region. Moving forward with capital projects that have the potential to reshape not just our university but also our nation. And reaching new levels of national prominence with our recent designation by the Carnegie Foundation as an R1 Research institution. In every direction we look, the momentum is building. But successes like these must be sustained and built upon. As significant as our recent R1 designation is, it must continue to be earned.
The significance of this moment calls on us to take our next step collectively. We are raising $500 million by 2028 to capitalize on our current momentum and catapult us into the decades to come.
These dreams for ODU are certainly ambitious.
The path forward calls as our focus sharpens on taking this next step together.
Raising $500 million over these five years is no small feat, but if we are to capitalize on the great momentum of all of our efforts to date, the time to act is now.
Monetary contributions are essential, but there are several other ways anyone can support this campaign for ODU’s future. Donations of time, resources, know-how, mentorship, internships, and introductions for our students and graduates are all ways you can support ODU. Along with even the smallest of donations, these efforts continue building positive momentum for our future.
There’s no limit to where these plans can take us.
Focused On  Strategic Expansion
Creating Cultural Destinations
To date, we’ve demonstrated great success in funding projects like The Barry Art Museum, which opened in 2018 and has emerged as one of Norfolk’s cultural gems. The Barry is now the centerpiece of ODU’s Arts Village, with more than 300 pieces of work on display — including glass sculptures, historical dolls, and abstract nautical paintings. Investing in venues like The Barry attracts global events and shows, such as our recent Museum of the Moon and Voyage to Mars exhibitions.
Special projects like these put ODU on the map and make us a destination for further development by attracting great programming and creating an atmosphere that attracts top talent to the university.
Competing In New Ways
By focusing on emerging programs like Esports, we gain a competitive edge against traditional athletics powerhouses. And that edge is leading to national exposure and gains in student recruitment.
Developing New Schools
The pace of disruption in our economy is showing no signs of slowing down. And for ODU, that’s a good thing. Because we are out in front when it comes to developing curriculums for rising needs in the workforce, such as our Thurmond Negotiations Lab, our School of Data Sciences (which also has a building in the works), the new School of Supply Chain, which holds the potential to impact our local economy immediately, and the School of Cybersecurity which is addressing the growing needs for our technology-centric, global economy.
It is a new day at Old Dominion University
