Courage Miller Partners Challenge Course
Courage Miller Partners Challenge Course
Discover Unique & Engaging Teambuilding Experiences
Located on campus at Whitehurst Beach, the Courage Miller Partners Challenge Course is an inclusive 13-element low rope course, consisting of hanging cables and wooden platform elements designed for participatory team building and leadership engagement programs. All challenge course programs are facilitated by trained ODU students and staff members. Our mission is to provide unique and engaging teambuilding experiences to develop cohesiveness among group members. Built on a experiential education foundation; we strive to enhance confidence, trust and personal growth through dynamic challenge opportunities.
The course and its programs are managed and reserved through the ODU Recreation and Wellness Department. It serves ODU students, staff, and professional groups, clubs and organizations; as well as the surrounding community.
Questions?
If you have any questions concerning the Courage Miller Partners Challenge Course or mobile programs, please contact us by email at recwell@odu.edu or by phone at 757-683-3384.
Recreation & Wellness
Directory
What is a Challenge Course Program?
A Challenge Course program is an event lasting from one hour to a full day experience and is led by a trained Challenge Course Facilitator. The program is designed around and built upon the unique goals of your group or organization. Facilitators will utilize the challenge course elements and other resources to create a custom sequence of mental and physical challenges that will inspire teamwork, problem-solving, communication, and trust for your group. The experience for your group could range from games designed to build fun common experiences all the way to intensive team building initiatives.
What is Experiential Education?
Experiential education is a teaching philosophy that informs many methodologies in which educators purposefully engage with leaners in direct experience and focused reflection in order to increase knowledge, develop skills, clarify values, and develop people's capacity to contribute to their communities. Through participation in a Courage Miller Challenge Course program, you and your group will be led through a series of activities and discussions rooted in this philosophy to reach your desired outcomes.
Program Pricing
Staffing Fee is $19 per hour per staff. One staff member per every 10 participants is required.
ODU Student Organization
