Transfer Checklist
Image
Transferring to a four-year university is an exciting time. We also know that completing your degree is your next step. Here, we will go over a checklist that will be helpful when transferring over to our BSCS program.
Need an overview about transferring to ODU?
We are here to help you continue your journey towards the next step in your educational career. If you have more general questions about transferring, please check out ODU Transfer .
General Transfer Information
Know how to use Degree Works
Image
Degree Works is how you keep track of the completion of your degree. Here is some key information you should know.
Learn how to use Degree Works
You may access Degree Works through the my.odu.edu portal using your Midas credentials. The tool pulls the academic information available to ODU through our database, and populates a degree requirement summary for your intended or declared major. It is the responsibility of the student to verify that the data is current.
Complete any missing information
Incomplete information should be provided to the proper ODU office for data population.
Check if there is any incorrect information
Incorrectly applied information should be communicated to your advisor.
Review your Program Progress status bar
The Program Progress status bar is right above the legend. This will show how far you are from completing your degree. The BSCS degree will be conferred when the status reaches 100%.
Make a Degree Plan
Planning your current classes for the upcoming semesters at ODU is a necessity to completing your degree on time. Here is some useful information for creating a Degree Plan.
Helpful Resources
Use the course catalog for that year
Review the 4-year plan guide
View the prerequisite structure
Transferring Credits
Credits show what you accomplish and achieve in your previous academics. Determining your valid credits will help smooth the transition to our BSCS program.
Evaluating credits from VCCS or 4-year university
Courses that are a part of VCCS or 4-year university will have an evaluation on record. This includes in-state and out-of-state universities. The course will be equivalent to a specific course(s) at ODU, or will be awarded elective credit (ELE).
Courses that are awarded elective (ELE) credit
The courses that are awarded ELE credits have been evaluated and determined to have no ODU course equivalency or have not been previously evaluated by a department at ODU.
Requesting a reevaluation of an ELE credit
Student who suspect that a course transferred to ODU (TP) with an ELE equivalency may request an evaluation. The evaluation must be performed by the Department that offers the course, and the result will be:
To request a reevaluation, please complete the Undergraduate Transfer Equivalency Form .
ODU course equivalency for all students
Waiver of a degree requirement for a single student
Transferring with Community College Degree
Earned Associates of Science
Official Transcript
An official transcript is accepted by ODU with a "Degree Awarded" designation and date. Note: Students who apply to ODU prior to conferment of the degree will need to provide another official transcript.
Degree Works
Lower Division General Education Requirements have to be completed:
The Nature of Science
Satisfied by two consecutive courses in:
Biology
