Class of 2025: From Family Traditions to Cyber Missions at Old Dominion University
Class of 2025: From Family Traditions to Cyber Missions at Old Dominion University
December 11, 2025
By Kelsey Kendall
For Jada Cumberland, a cyber operations major, coming to Old Dominion University was an easy decision — not just because of its nationally recognized School of Cybersecurity. Choosing to attend the University meant building upon a family legacy. As a Monarch, the Virginia Beach native found opportunities that helped her develop as a leader among her peers, grow as a cybersecurity professional and embrace a well-rounded college experience.
Jada’s parents, who are from Jamaica and the Bahamas, attended the University, met and fell in love while watching the waves at Whitehurst Beach before graduating in 1993. She joined the Monarch Steel Drum Orchestra to honor and connect with that heritage and found joy and belonging in the Monarch community through it. Football became a family affair when her brother joined the Monarch Marching Band in 2016. Since then, Jada, her parents, brother and cousins, who are also mostly alumni or current students, crowd into the student section at every home game — rain or shine.
“It’s been awesome to experience how Old Dominion University has grown over the years, to see all the new developments and really experience that Monarch pride,” Jada said. “Every time we’re on campus, we’re just shouting and hollering and having a great time.”
Jada, a past Landmark Foundation Southeastern Virginia Opportunity Scholarship recipient, found exciting chances to develop as a leader in her field and on campus. Jada participated in student-led groups, such as the Cybersecurity Student Association, through which she was able to harness her expertise to tutor and encourage her peers, and the Blue Crown Society, which is a student-led organization dedicated to professional development and leadership excellence. As an active member of the Blue Crown Society, she and the other students represent the University at events enabling networking opportunities within the Monarch Nation and beyond.
Jada also completed two internships with the U.S. Navy through the Naval Research Enterprise Internship Program. She credits the University’s unique proximity to several military bases for helping her find such impactful work-based learning opportunities and giving her real-world experience with complex cyber systems.
Her ongoing National Security Agency (NSA) funded research, in partnership with the Virginia Modeling, Analysis and Simulation Center, has also given her a taste of how Old Dominion University is at the forefront of technological innovation. Working with University and NSA experts, she studied theoretical computer science with a cybersecurity emphasis.
“I’ve been able to experience almost all the different aspects of academics Old Dominion University has to offer, from the Perry Honors College to the School of Cybersecurity to research — the whole nine yards,” Jada said.
Earning her undergraduate degree in Fall 2025, she is on a fast track to earn her master's through the University’s B.S. to M.S. Cybersecurity linked program in one more year. From there, her job prospects can range from ethical hacking, which allows entities to find and fix any vulnerabilities before a cyberattack occurs, to reverse engineering malware to better understand how malware works and develop defenses against it.
“It’s really the problem-solving aspects of cybersecurity that drew me in,” Jada said. “You can be presented with a problem, and there’s no one way to solve it. You just have to figure out what works.”
Shobha Vatsa, a lecturer in the School of Cybersecurity and program coordinator for cyber operations, said she admires Jada’s drive, intellect and heart, noting that she is always quick to help others when needed and demonstrates excellent leadership ability.
“She’s awesome,” Vatsa said. “I would recommend her in every aspect of life. Every competition, she’ll be the one leading. For any activity, she’ll be the one leading it. She’s always volunteering and eager to help.”
From cheering on the Monarchs at every home football game to connecting with her parents’ family’s Caribbean roots and getting practical hands-on experience in cybersecurity, Jada found the experience and sense of belonging she desired at Old Dominion University.
“No matter how far my career takes me, Old Dominion University will always have a special place in my heart, and I look forward to eventually giving back to the next generation of Monarchs,” Jada said.
