Student Success Resources
Student Success Resources
In the College of Sciences, our students are driven, curious, and ambitious. This page helps to support our students' success by pulling together all the University resources to browse.
Featured Resources
Other Resources
Advising
Encouraging students to make the most out of their college experience both inside and outside of the classroom.
ASIS
Study Abroad
Consider studying abroad for a semester, academic year, summer, or spring break as part of your academic experience.
Center for Major Exploration & Mane Connect Success Coaching
Assisting undecided students, of all classifications, in the process of career and major exploration.
Get confidential help
Women's Center
Programs and services that promote gender equity and address the unique challenges of female students pursuing higher education.
Student Health
SHS can serve as a valuable partner in your health and well-being while at Old Dominion University.
SHS
Educational Accessibility
Ensuring that students who experience disabilities are able to successfully access and participate in all aspects of University life.
ODU Cares Team
ODU Cares provides a university-wide system of care and support for students who experience an unexpected crisis.
On-Campus Housing
Student Organizations
More than 300 student organizations, providing students an opportunity to expand their growth and learning through leadership, service, and socializing with a diverse group of peers.
OIR
Leaders
Connecting students to enriching courses and active learning experiences resulting in a competitive edge in their chosen careers.
Leaders
Center for Career & Leadership Development
Your destination for campus jobs, internship/job search strategies, career fairs, resume & interview preparation, classroom presentations, grad school applications, and anything career related.
CCLD
Military Connection Center
Providing comprehensive support for students to succeed from the point of admission through graduation and ultimately on to a productive career.
