Find The Right Path With ODUGlobal
Find the Right Path with ODUGlobal
You Don’t Have to Know Right Now
Choosing a major or career path can feel overwhelming—but you’re not alone. At ODUGlobal, we’re here to help you explore your options, match your interests to degree programs, and take the next step with confidence.
Free Resources for You
U.S. military service member or dependent?
Yes
State
I have credits I'd like to transfer
If you are interested in pursuing an undergraduate degree, we can provide a free unofficial evaluation of your domestic transcript(s).
Upload Transcript(s) Now
Unofficial Transcript Upload
Unofficial Transcript Upload
By clicking this checkbox, I agree to receive text messages from ODU related to Marketing and Admission. Message & data rates may apply. Message frequency varies. Carriers are not liable for delayed or undelivered messages. Reply HELP for help and STOP to cancel. Terms of Service and Privacy Policy .*
NCM Referral
Your best resource is our enrollment team. They understand all of our options and have helped thousands of students find their fit. Complete the form and our team will be in touch.
Browse Personalized Matches
Focus2 is an interactive tool that matches your interests with careers and degrees. We’re already invested in your success, so we are providing you with a free account using the access code bigblue. Take the assessment to explore potential fields.
Discover Industry Stats
Another great resource is the Occupational Outlook Handbook by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. It provides insights into job growth, salaries, and education requirements for hundreds of careers.
Explore ODUGlobal’s Degree Options
ODUGlobal offers a variety of online degree programs designed to fit your goals. If you don’t see the right fit, let us know! We can help you find the best path forward.
Not sure which path to take?
Lead Your Future with ODUGlobal's Leadership Program
Our bachelor’s in leadership is a flexible, career-focused program that prepares you for success in a wide range of industries. Whether you’re interested in business, government, education, or nonprofit work, this program helps you develop essential leadership, communication, and problem-solving skills—giving you the versatility to adapt and thrive. Plus, many of your previously earned credits may transfer, allowing you to complete your degree faster. And with our fully online format, you can learn on your schedule, wherever you are!
