5th Annual Reign In Science Day Sparks Curiosity
5th Annual Reign in Science Day Sparks Curiosity
October 17, 2025 By Trandon Bender, Kyle Lambert and Emily Hardy
share
Old Dominion University’s College of Sciences is proud to announce the success of the fifth annual Reign in Science Day. This unique S.T.E.M. event brought together students, families, faculty, and community partners for a day of hands-on scientific discoveries and fun. The event was organized by Drs. Emily Hardy, Kyle Lambert, and Trandon Bender, with support from faculty, staff, and students from across the College of Sciences.
Participants from all seven cities of Hampton Roads, as well as some from as far away as Richmond, made the journey to Norfolk on a rainy day as a result of the season’s first Nor’easter looming off the coast. It also marked the first time Reign in Science Day was held indoors, and our volunteers and organizers demonstrated exceptional flexibility and teamwork in adapting to the new format.
This year’s program welcomed 289 students and 233 parents, for a total of 522 participants, supported by approximately 130 volunteers. Volunteers included graduate and undergraduate students, along with faculty from across the College of Sciences at ODU.
Amongst the ODU student volunteers, there were over a dozen Hampton Roads Science Ambassadors. These students take part in a four-week training course at ODU to assist them in becoming strong science communicators. "Each student takes their own research and develops a science demo that explains the research they are doing at ODU,” said Dr. Bender. “It is really a challenge because they need to be able to describe their research to second graders and grandparents in about three minutes.” All of the volunteers had to be able to come up with creative and engaging demos to fully engage the diverse audience of attendees.
The success of Reign in Science also relies heavily on community partners. “This event is a great opportunity to showcase all the exciting science happening in Hampton Roads,” said Dr. Hardy. “Our volunteers come from all walks of life, and I think it’s so important for students to see that anyone can be a scientist.”
Community Partners for this year’s event who helped to make this an enriching experience for all who attended included:
Back Bay Amateur Astronomers
Christopher Newport University (students and faculty)
College of William & Mary (students and faculty)
First Landing State Park
Hampton Roads Local Section of the American Chemical Society
Lynnhaven River NOW
