Scholarships
Do online students qualify for scholarships?
Yes! At ODUGlobal, we believe in making quality education accessible, regardless of where you are now or where you’re going. Our range of scholarships are designed to support and empower you in achieving your academic and career aspirations.
Whether you've been out of college for a while or just decided on your major, we may have a scholarship opportunity to match your goals. Deadlines vary, so check out the details and apply today!
Apply for Admission to ODU
ODUGlobal Scholarships
There are a limited number of ODUGlobal scholarships available each academic year and all scholarships have been awarded for Spring 2026. Each online student who applies for admission by the deadline will be reviewed for these outstanding scholarship opportunities. Please note additional requirements below, if applicable.
Beyond Boundaries — Transfer Students
The Beyond Boundaries Scholarship provides up to $3,000 for the first year to high-achieving online undergraduate transfer students who live outside Virginia (U.S. or international). To be considered, you must have:
a cumulative transfer GPA of at least 3.25; and
completed a minimum of 12 credits.
Finish Stronger — Return to Your ODUGlobal Bachelor's Degree
If you took a break from your bachelor's degree with ODUGlobal, this scholarship can help you return and reach the finish line! This is a one-time award of $2,500. To be eligible for this scholarship, you must:
be a former ODU online undergraduate student who has been away for at least one year (three semesters);
have reactivated your ODU enrollment as an online student; and
have a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.25 (minimum of 12 credits completed).
Monarch Pride — Calling ODU Alumni!
Attention ODU alumni! If you earned a bachelor's degree from ODU, take the next step in your educational journey and strengthen your ODU bond through the ODUGlobal Monarch Pride Scholarship. This one-time $1,000 scholarship applies to the first semester of enrollment in an ODUGlobal master’s or doctoral degree program.
Social Good — Promoting Positive Communities
Undergraduate
We applaud our students who seek to impact their communities through careers in teaching, criminal justice, and human services. Recipients are awarded $3,000 in the first semester of enrollment. To be considered, you must:
be admitted into ODU as an online undergraduate transfer student;
have a minimum transfer GPA of 3.25;
pursue a major in teacher education , human services , or criminal justice ; and
have completed a minimum of 12 credits.
Future Shapers — Technology-based Programs
This scholarship supports students pursuing degrees in technology-based industries, fostering innovation and growth.
Undergraduate
Recipients are awarded $3,000 for the first semester of enrollment. To be considered, you must:
be admitted into ODU as an online undergraduate transfer student;
have a minimum transfer GPA of 3.25;
have completed a minimum of 12 credits.
Healthcare Heroes — Practitioner-based Programs
This scholarship lifts students who will support others’ health by entering practitioner-based health care programs or disciplines that promote community and global health practices.
Undergraduate
Recipients are awarded $3,000 for the first semester of enrollment. To be considered, you must:
be admitted into ODU as an online undergraduate transfer student;
have a minimum transfer GPA of 3.25;
have completed a minimum of 12 credits.
Virginia Innovators — Undergraduate Transfer Students
This scholarship is for online undergraduate transfer students living in Virginia. Recipients are awarded $3,000 in the first semester of enrollment. To be considered, you also must:
have a cumulative transfer GPA of 3.60 or higher;
have completed a minimum of 12 credits; and
not qualify for another ODUGlobal scholarship.
Disabled Military Service Members and Their Families
We offer an annual scholarship to current or former service members​ disabled in the line of duty and their family members.
Qualified applicants can be from any branch including the Coast Guard, National Guard, Air National Guard, and Reserves.
This scholarship requires a separate application and documentation and has a yearly deadline.
View application instructions and form
General Information
To receive an ODUGlobal scholarship, you must be registered for at least one class in your application semester prior to the university’s initial add/drop deadline for that semester. If you are eligible for multiple ODUGlobal scholarships, you will receive only the scholarship with the highest award.
You will receive notification of any scholarship you are to receive from ODUGlobal. Accepting a scholarship may impact other financial aid you receive.
Scholarship availability and criteria are subject to change.
View ODUGlobal Scholarship Terms and Conditions
Find More Sources of Aid
Remember, scholarships are gifts. They don't need to be repaid. There are thousands of scholarships available! They may be offered by employers, individuals, private companies, nonprofits, communities, religious groups, professional and social organizations, and ODU.
Grants are another kind of financial aid that generally do not need to be repaid. Scholarships and grants based on financial need often use FAFSA data to determine eligibility. To apply for them, complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) each year that you are enrolled.
How to Avoid Scholarship Scams
Never pay someone to fill out your FAFSA.
Never pay to apply for a scholarship, even a "processing fee."
Don't trust companies that guarantee you'll receive a scholarship or grant.
Don't provide your credit card to "confirm eligibility."
If you're not sure, ask a guidance counselor or the financial aid office to verify if a scholarship opportunity is legitimate.
