Application Process
Am I an international student?
You are considered ‘international’ for admissions purposes if you are not a US citizen or US Permanent Resident and require a non-immigrant visa. U.S. citizens and U.S. Legal Permanent Residents (green card holders) should apply through the Office of Admissions and not International Admissions. Individuals that have established temporary residence as an asylee or refugee are processed through domestic admissions.
Where can I find a list of the programs ODU offers?
Search all of our programs here: https://www.odu.edu/academics/programs . Co-majors and minors are also available.
Where do I submit my application and materials?
Applications and all materials are submitted online at https://monarch.odu.edu/app/s/ .
Can I apply with unofficial transcripts and test scores?
Yes, you may apply by uploading unofficial copies of your academic transcripts and test scores. However, if you are admitted, you will be required to provide official copies.
Am I required to take an English language proficiency test?
Yes, all non-native speakers of English are required to submit an English language proficiency test. We accept many test types, including TOEFL, IELTS, Duolingo, the SAT reading test, and others. Visit our website for more information: https://www.odu.edu/admissions/proficiency .
What are the deadlines to apply?
The deadline to apply for Fall (August) is April 15. Spring (January) deadline is October 1.  Summer (May) deadline February 1. Applications may be considered after this date but graduate students should contact their program directly to confirm before submitting their application. Late applications will be reviewed at the discretion of the International Admissions office.
How much is the application fee?
The non-refundable $50 (USD) application fee is required of all applicants. MasterCard and Visa are accepted credit cards. In the instance a credit card payment is not available, international checks, bank drafts or money orders must be drawn from a U.S. banking institution, made payable in U.S. dollars to Old Dominion University and mailed directly to the Office of International Admissions.
Can I apply to more than one program?
Yes, but each application must be submitted separately and the application fee paid on each.
How long will it take to receive a decision on my application?
A complete undergraduate application typically requires 4-6 weeks for decisions, and a complete graduate application 8-10 weeks. Please be mindful that decision times may vary during the peak application season.
Does ODU offer conditional admission?
ODU offers conditional admission pending English proficiency. Students who have not satisfied the English language requirement but meet all other academic criteria for admission may be conditionally admitted pending completion of an Intensive English Program (IEP) or the Monarch English Transition (MET) program, depending on their level of English proficiency at the time of application. Conditional Admission is not available for distance (online) students.
Can I study English prior to starting my degree program?
Yes, ODU has an English Language Center that offers English courses. Please see the above information on conditional admission.
Is the SAT or ACT required?
Neither the SAT nor ACT standardized test is required for admission. However, these tests are recommended if applying for the ISS Undergraduate scholarship. Sufficient verbal scores on either test may satisfy the English language proficiency requirement.
What is ODU's CEEB code for test reporting?
The College Examination Entrance Board (CEEB) code for all standardized test reporting to ODU is 005126.
How long will it take to complete my program?
Most bachelor’s degrees take 4 years on average to complete, master’s 2 years, and Ph.D.s 4-5 years.
Funding/Tuition
Are any scholarships available to international undergraduate students?
The Office of International Admissions offers a competitive, merit based scholarship, renewable (up to 4 years) for newly admitted, initial Bachelor's degree seeking international students. For eligible recipients, the ISS scholarship offers up to $16,000 USD per academic year to be applied to out-of-state tuition costs.
Is financial aid available to international graduate students?
Contact the Graduate Program Director of your intended program of study directly for graduate, teaching or research assistantship opportunities.
Am I eligible for in-state tuition rates?
Students studying on F-1 or J-1 student visas are not eligible for in-state tuition; however, other non-immigrant categories may qualify and would need to submit an application for in-state tuition to be evaluated.
Do I need to purchase health insurance?
Health Insurance is required for those in F-1 or J-1 visa status and is listed as a required expense on the visa document. Students are automatically enrolled and billed for the University health insurance policy for the duration of their studies. Dependents in F-2 status are not required to purchase the University sanctioned plan; however, ODU strongly encourages health insurance coverage for your spouse and children while residing in the United States. Dependents in J-2 status, per federal law, must maintain health insurance that meets the requirements outlined by the Department of State.
How do I pay my tuition and fees?
Tuition and fee payments are due on strict deadlines at the start of each semester following course registration. Plan to have sufficient funds for the initial semester in a readily exchangeable form upon arrival. Payments may be made online, by mail, or in person. International payments may be made via Flywire ,and traveler's checks, MasterCard and Visa may also be used. Payments may be made via cash, but carrying a large amount of cash around at any time is highly discouraged.
Are payment plans available?
Yes, ODU offers a payment plan through which tuition, fees, health insurance and on-campus housing costs may be paid in 4 installments during the semester. Students must enroll in the payment plan in their MyODU portal and pay a $40 payment plan fee each semester.
Third Party or Government Sponsorship
If sponsored by an employer, governmental or private organization, and direct billing of your tuition and fees is requested, Old Dominion University must obtain current billing authorization and contact information. Invoice approval is sanctioned by a dated financial guarantee written on official organization stationary. The total funding amount, duration of funds, and any additional related terms and or restrictions, such as specific course of study registration, must be clearly stated. Visit Third Party Payments for additional information.
Can I work to help supplement my funding?
Students in F-1 status can work on-campus up to 20 hours per week while school is in session, or full time while not in session. Off-campus internships in the form of Curricular Practical Training (CPT) may also be available after your first academic year.
Degree Equivalency/Evaluation
Is my degree equivalent to a U.S. Bachelor's degree?
Applicants are encouraged to apply to the academic level for which they think they qualify. Degree determination is a component of the application process, and notification is given if a different level of study is more appropriate. Some evaluation companies will allow you to do a pre-evaluation for free to get a preliminary answer on whether your degree is considered equivalent to a U.S. bachelor’s; however, ODU makes all final determinations. As a service to applicants, the Office of International Admissions evaluates all foreign academic credentials.
Can I apply for a bachelor’s degree with just a GED or O Levels?
Yes, students with a GED or who have 5 O-level passes are eligible to apply.
Can international students receive transfer credit?
The Office of International Admissions awards general education and elective undergraduate course credit from classes taken at accredited post-secondary institutions. Core departmental course credit is awarded by academic advisors within the appropriate academic department or college. Course/catalog descriptions officially translated into English are required and will expedite the evaluation process. Advanced Placement (AP) and International Baccalaureate (IB) credits are awarded once official scores are received.
Can I receive transfer credit for graduate courses?
All graduate level transfer credit is determined by the Graduate Program Director.
Does ODU accept credential evaluations from agencies?
Old Dominion University evaluates all foreign credentials in-house. All academic credentials must be sealed, stamped/attested by a school official (Registrar, Principal or Controller of Exams) and sent directly from the institution to ODU to be evaluated. Evaluations completed by a credential evaluation agency or service are not accepted as official; however, the report can serve as an English translation.
Non-Degree Studies
How do I apply for Non-Degree studies?
A complete non-degree application includes copies of final certificates, highest earned diploma or degree, demonstrated English language proficiency, and a copy of one's non-immigrant visa and passport identification page. Enrollment in non-degree studies does not qualify a student for the F or J student visa status, so one must already be in the U.S. in another status that allows non-degree studies or these must be completed from abroad. Non-degree study while in F-1 status is allowed only by approval during a summer session or a practical training program. Dependents in F-2 status may enroll in recreational or English language training courses. There are no non-degree study restrictions for J-2 visa holders. Contact the Office of International Admissions if you are unsure about eligibility for non-degree study.
Does ODU participate in exchange or study abroad agreements?
Those interested in yearly exchange programs should contact the Office of Study Abroad for a list of institutions with which ODU currently administers exchange agreements. International students are also eligible to participate in ODU’s Study Abroad programs.
Does ODU host J visa scholars?
Many international visitors join ODU as researchers and faculty on a J visa scholar program administered by the Department of State. Please direct inquiries to the Visa and Immigration Services Office.
Can I participate in Distance Learning at ODU?
International students may apply for Distance Learning programs, with the exception of F-1 and J-1 students, who must enroll in face-to-face classes on the Norfolk campus.
Admitted Students
Can I defer my admission or application?
International students are eligible to defer their admission for up to one academic year. Requests to push admission beyond this timeframe will require the student to re-apply with transcripts and a new application fee.
What visa should I apply for?
ODU is approved to host students on both the F-1 and J-1 student visas. With sufficient proof of funding, the University will issue a Certificate of Eligibility document that allows the student to apply for the appropriate visa at a U.S. Consulate or Embassy abroad. More detail will be given on this process once you are admitted.
What are the requirements for obtaining an I-20 (F-1) or DS-2019 (J-1) visa document?
Once admitted, those seeking an F-1 or J-1 student visa must submit supporting finances to the Office of International Admissions in the International Student Portal. These financial documents must indicate sufficient funding for the first year of expenses, including tuition/fees, living/personal costs, and mandatory health insurance. All financial documents must be original or certified, dated, and show the equivalent numerical balance of funds to cover the 9-month academic year. Once funding is received and approved your I-20 or DS-2019 will be issued within two weeks. You will also need to be prepared to show your financial documents during your visa interview and travel to the U.S.
What is ODU’s School/Program Code for SEVIS?
F-1 School Code: WAS214F10145000
J-1 Program Code: P-1-03464
Can my dependents (spouse or children) accompany me to the U.S.?
Yes. Each family member in F-2 or J-2 status will require their own visa eligibility certificate and will have to apply for their visa separately. Please note that additional funding is required for each dependent, and any sponsorship funding must note and be adjusted accordingly to reflect whether it includes dependent expenses. A copy of each dependent's passport information page is also required.
Can I register for courses before my arrival?
No; all new F-1 and J-1 international students must first arrive in the U.S. and complete their immigration check-in with the visa office before course registration can proceed.
Will someone assist me with airport arrangements?
At this time the University does not offer assistance with airport pick up, unless you are participating in the MINT Orientation Program in the Fall semester.
Do you offer on-campus housing accommodations?
Undergraduate students have the opportunity to apply for on-campus housing. Campus housing for graduate students is very limited and only offered on a 10 month contract beginning in the fall semester. However, there are plenty of housing options very near to campus, and ODU has off-campus housing resources to help students find accommodations.
How do I transfer my SEVIS record from another U.S. institution?
After admission to ODU, request that your current school/international student advisor transfer your electronic SEVIS record to ODU. Records must be transferred before starting any classes or employment at ODU, or before the return from any international travel, if applicable. Your previous institution must complete a SEVIS Transfer-In Form and the student must submit sufficient proof of financial support. Once these items are complete, a new I-20 or DS-2019 will be issued once the SEVIS transfer takes place.
When should I arrive to campus?
There are a number of mandatory orientation programs which you must attend before the academic year begins, so it is recommended that all new students arrive at least one week before classes begin. Graduate students receiving a graduate assistantship have an additional training they must attend or may have to schedule to take the SPEAK test before beginning their positions. Tax and employment paperwork will also have to be completed with the Visa Office before beginning any employment.
How soon before my program can I enter the U.S.?
F/J visa holders are eligible to enter the U.S. no more than 30 days in advance of the program start date listed on the I-20/DS-2019 visa document. Be sure your passport is valid at least six months beyond the program start date or your visa may not be issued or you may not be allowed to enter the U.S.
Admissions
