Info For International Students
International Students and ODUGlobal
With over 40 years in distance education, our online programs have the same content and academic rigor as on-campus classes.
What Do You Want to Study?
These ODUGlobal programs are popular with international students who study from their home country.
Programs that Fit Your World
Find the right program for you.
Degree Level
Is This Right For Me?
Who can take an online program?
Students all around the world can enroll at Old Dominion University to complete undergraduate, graduate, and certificate programs. However, students who are currently living in the United States with an F1 student visa may not enroll in our online programs.
Will my degree say “online”?
No. Our online programs are taught by faculty at our main campus in Norfolk, Virginia. The courses contain the same content and academic rigor, whether you study online or on campus. Your diploma will say that you earned your degree from Old Dominion University.
Paying for School
ODUGlobal Scholarships
Our range of scholarships are designed to support and empower you in achieving your academic and career goals.
View ODUGlobal Scholarships
Online Tuition Cost for International Students
Tuition cost for international students studying from their home country is the same as our competitive out-of-state tuition rate.
Learn More about Cost and Aid
Over 40 Years of Distance Learning Leadership
Old Dominion University is a public doctoral research institution and a national leader in distance learning with its main campus in Norfolk, VA. ODU has been a pioneer in technology-delivered distance learning since the mid-1980's.
Outstanding Support
We Support You
We develop our programs based on what works for you. From military ships at sea, to your home, or one of our partner community colleges, you'll get the same academic support and resources as any of our on-campus students.
Online Resources
As an ODU student, you'll have access to all the support that our on-campus students enjoy, from career services to 24/7 technical support.
Becoming a Monarch
Applying as an International Student
1. Select a program and submit your information from the program's information page. An ODUGlobal Enrollment Coach will contact you to answer questions, look at your transcripts (if you have previous college credits), and assist with the admission application process.
2. Apply to ODU . You must demonstrate English language proficiency for all programs. You can show proficiency through exam scores like TOEFL or through a previous degree. Click here for a complete list of ways to satisfy this requirement.
Can I register and start classes at any time?
No, ODU has specific admission deadlines and course registration periods. Most courses follow ODU's regular semester schedule . A few programs have an accelerated schedule, such as the Master of Business Administration (MBA) , but registration happens at the same time as full semester courses.
TALK TO us
