Undergraduate
Sam Haskell Scholarship
Learn more
Virginia Space Grant Consortium Undergrad Research Scholarships
The research must be of interest to NASA, student-led, and faculty mentored. About 50 awards available. Students from any federally recognized minority group in STEM and enrolled full-time in a STEM program at a VSGC member institution should apply.
Graduate
Irwin B. Levinstein Scholarship
This scholarship is awarded to a Computer Science graduate student making satisfactory progress and who is, in order of priority, female, or an international student from Africa, South America or Southeast Asia (Thailand, Cambodia, Laos or Vietnam), or a graduate of the Norfolk Public School system.
Learn more
Dr. Hussein Abdel-Wahab Memorial Graduate Fellowship
This fellowship is awarded to one graduate student each year (up to $5,000 for one year). This award does not include a tuition waiver, but it can be combined with a GRA or GTA position that includes a tuition waiver.
Learn more
ODU Alumni Association Outstanding Scholar Fellowships
Criteria: Graduate, fully admitted; Must be enrolled in three or more graduate credit hours; Final undergraduate GPA 3.5 and current graduate GPA 3.5; One fellowship to ODU alumnus or alumna. Total amount: $3,000
The Graduate School General Scholarship
Criteria: Must be a full-time student in the Graduate School; Award is renewable; Must demonstrate extraordinary academic merit; GPA of 3.5 or higher. Total amount: $949
The Meredith Construction Company Scholarship
Criteria: Graduate student; academic excellence; program director's nomination. Total amount: $7,905
Graduate Assistantships
Qualified graduate students have the opportunity to receive funding while in the graduate program at ODU. Many of our graduate students are funded either through Graduate Research Assistantships (GRA) or Graduate Teaching Assistantships (GTA).
Learn more
Virginia Space Grant Consortium (VSGC) Graduate Research Fellowship
The research must be of interest to NASA, student-led, and faculty mentored. About 50 awards available. Fellowships are only open to VSGC member institutions which includes ODU. Students from any federally recognized minority group in STEM and enrolled full-time in a STEM program are strongly encouraged to apply.
Doctoral
Dominion Graduate Scholar
The College of Sciences offers the Dominion Graduate Scholar appointment, a competitive one-year award for graduate students. In the Department of Computer Science, two Dominion Graduate Scholar awards each carry a $22,000 stipend for the Fall and Spring semesters. These awards include full tuition exemption and require that students be enrolled in at least nine hours of graduate courses each semester.
Graduate Assistantships
Qualified graduate students have the opportunity to receive funding while in the graduate program at ODU. Many of our graduate students are funded either through Graduate Research Assistantships (GRA) or Graduate Teaching Assistantships (GTA).
