Request an EP Student Workshop
ePortfolio Assistants
Our Assistants are peer mentors trained to support students as they develop ePortfolios for a variety of contexts. Through individual appointments, the assistants help students work with digital programs, answering specific questions regarding how to do various actions as well offering general feedback on design, content, and function of an ePortfolio when given the context within which that portfolio is being produced. These appointments are intended to help students learn to navigate and work within such systems on their own.
The ePortfolio Assistants are currently available online, Monday - Saturday.
Specifically, ePortfolio Assistants help students with:
Working with ePortfolio programs such as: Google Drive, Google Sites, Wix, and Wordpress;
Developing multimedia elements for ePortfolios such as images, video, and audio elements;
Students interested in meeting with an ePortfolio Assistant may make an appointment online
Schedule an Appointment
Video Support (without an appointment)
We know ODU students are busy! We can help you even if you don't have time to attend an appointment. Whether you have a tech question or a request for someone to look over your ePortfolio to provide feedback, we can provide a video response tailored to your needs.
In response, you will receive a 10-15 minute screencast recording with feedback from an ePortfolio Assistant. You can also request follow-up videos or make an appointment, should you still have questions.
Request support or feedback by reserving time on a tutor's schedule for them to review your ePortfolio and create the video.
Be sure to provide a link to the ePortfolio and any specific questions. The more specific you are regarding your questions, the better the ePortfolio Assistant is able to address them.
Request Video EP Support
Distance Learning Support
We continue to offer ePortfolio and digital tutoring online , either during individual sessions via Zoom or video feedback ( make an appointment on WCOnline ) or during Open Studio Hours ( http://bit.ly/epopenstudio ). We have also added tutorials for common digital tools used for online classes, which you can find on our Tutorials page. If you have additional questions but don't want to make an appointment, we encourage you to make use of our public Slack channel or to email us at eportfolio@odu.edu .
