Eastern Virginia Medical School
Start Your Career in Medicine
Earn your medical degree at Eastern Virginia Medical School, where care and caregiving are at our core.
MD Program Benefits
See patients on Day 1
Spend your first day working with standardized patients in the Sentara Center for Simulation and Immersive Learning.
See patients on Day 1
As national leaders in medical modeling and simulation, we provide you with early experience working with standardized patients and practicing with lifelike simulations.
Early ultrasound training
Use the field's leading technologies in your first weeks with our robust ultrasound curriculum.
Early ultrasound training
As early adopters of ultrasound use in teaching, our ultrasound curriculum is ahead of the curve. From your first week, you will explore the technology that doctors are using on a daily basis across the country and around the world.
Varied training environments
Present and take an active role in rounds while working with diverse patient populations at several hospital locations.
Varied training environments
As a student at a medical school without its own hospital, you will have opportunities to train in a variety of hospitals - from a level 1 trauma center to a children's hospital to military and community hospitals - and more than 150 partnering clinical practices in our region.
You are a valued member of a patient's healthcare team early on, and this experience pays off: Program directors praise our students' advanced abilities during clinical rotations.
Eastern Virginia Medical School
Admissions
Where We Match
Match Day is a day of celebration for MD students everywhere, but especially here, where the number of graduating students who match with a residency program regularly surpasses the national average. See where our students match and how we've prepared them for residency.
Student Life
SVG
Faculty-student relationship
Our faculty are committed to student excellence. Third-year students meet one-on-one with the vice dean to receive career guidance.
The CareForward Curriculum guides us as we:
educate caring, compassionate and skillful caregivers
prepare students for residency and careers in medicine
give students the knowledge to competently navigate the healthcare system
The path to medical school
Meet Fiora McRae, MD Class of 2020, who did not have a traditional undergraduate experience.
She shares how she overcame obstacles and what steps she took to become an ideal medicine candidate with the Association of American Medical Colleges.
Judette Louis, MD, M.P.H.
Judette Louis, MD, M.P.H., is dean of Macon & Joan Brock Virginia Health Sciences Eastern Virginia Medical School at Old Dominion University. Dr. Louis is a widely regarded physician-scientist with extensive leadership experience in an academic health center. She is also a fellowship-trained maternal-fetal medicine physician and a national leader within the field.
L.D. Britt, MD, MPH, FACS, FCCM
Dr. Britt has received numerous distinctions for teaching and community service, including the American College of Surgeons (ACS) Lifetime Achievement Award, AAMC’s Alpha Omega Alpha Robert J. Glaser Distinguished Teacher Award and the Association of Surgical Education’s Distinguished Educator Award for lifetime achievement. He is Vice Dean of Clinical Affairs, and has served in key leadership roles of more than 10 surgical societies and associations, including the ACGME Residency Review Committee for Surgery. In 2016, he was elected to the National Academy of Medicine, and in 2017, he received a $2.5 million NIH grant to address healthcare disparities.
Cynthia Romero, MD
Dr. Romero (MD ’93) has led the M. Foscue Brock Institute for Community and Global Health as its director since 2014. Before her arrival at our institution, the former Virginia State Health Commissioner served as the principal health advisor to the Governor, Secretary of Health and Human Resources, Virginia General Assembly and Board of Health. Dr. Romero previously oversaw Chesapeake Regional Medical Center as its Chief Medical Officer and Vice President for Quality and Medical Affairs. She is a past president of the Medical Society of Virginia and former fellow of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Resources.
