Student Employment & Other Opportunities
Seeking Student Employment?
Your first stop is Handshake! Connect to open positions and many types of opportunities, both on- and off-campus in Handshake.
Explore Opportunities
Federal Work Study (FWS)
Provides funds for part-time employment to help eligible students finance the costs of postsecondary education. All available FWS positions are posted in Handshake.
FWS funds are not applied to your student account. Funds must be earned through employment in an eligible FWS position within the university and are paid through direct deposit based on hours worked.
A current FWS Award offer is required to apply for all FWS positions. An award does not guarantee a position on campus, but instead opens an additional pool of positions available to you on campus.
The Center for Career and Leadership Development partners with all campus departments for FWS allocations. Each position is posted in Handshake and applicants are recruited and hired directly by the worksite.
To find available positions, please log into Handshake and search for “FWS” positions.
Federal Work Study Off-Campus
FWS Internship Program
Eligibility
Check your award notification from Financial Aid or LEO Online . Eligible students who filed a FAFSA form for financial aid are given FWS amount to accept or decline from the Old Dominion University Office of Financial Aid.
FWS is awarded by Financial Aid based on financial need as determined through your completed FAFSA. Eligibility is determined by number of factors. If you are awarded FWS you will see the award in your Financial Aid Package. Check your financial aid package in LEO Online. FWS will be listed with any other grants or loans issued by Financial Aid.
Center for Career & Leadership Development
youtube
Learn & Earn Program (LEAP)
LEAP is a freshman employment program unique to ODU that allows students to mix Learning with Earning. ONLY freshman with a LEAP award are able to apply for open LEAP jobs. Students in this program are hired in different departments around campus and are able to earn a paycheck while also taking a weekly class that will teach about professionalism and other workforce readiness skills. LEAP seeks to prepare students for the internships and careers after college. Learning about the skills employers value while developing and applying them to their work site is the basis of the program. The LEAP program is only for freshmen. There is a LEAP2 program that allows some of the successful LEAP1 students to continue into their sophomore year.
The LEAP Program continues from LEAP 1 to LEAP 4 allows students to work on campus in a role that will help to develop career-relevant skills while preparing students for internships or other work options until graduation. Students have to have completed LEAP 1 and continue to be eligible for the program to participate.
LEAP STAT
Eligibility
Check your award notification from Financial Aid. Eligible 1st year undergraduate students who filed a FAFSA form for financial aid would have been given an LEAP amount to accept or decline from the Old Dominion University Office of Financial Aid.
LEAP is awarded by Financial Aid based on financial need as determined through your completed FAFSA. Eligibility is determined by number of factors. If you are awarded LEAP you will see the award in your Financial Aid Package. Check your financial aid package in LEO. LEAP will be listed with any other grants or loans issued by Financial Aid.
To accept your award go to the LEO Online Financial Aid review screen, choose accept (or decline) the LEAP offer. Once accepted, LEAP awards must be earned by attending the LEAP class and obtaining a LEAP position on campus; LEAP awards are not automatically applied to your student account.
Apply for Jobs on Handshake
Once you have accepted a FWS or LEAP award you can search for a position that will allow you to earn your award:
