Companies
Students
Are you looking for an opportunity to apply your education to real-world applications? CSIIP connects you to paid undergraduate internships in science, technology, engineering and math fields. Participation in CSIIP enhances your résumé and is a good way to gain actual job experience in your field of study and build relationships with potential employers.
Application Requirements
Must be attending a Virginia university, college, or community college. Virginia residents attending accredited out-of-state colleges may also apply
Have completed at least 30 or more post-secondary education credits and are at least at rising sophomore status prior to the internship. Recent graduates are also eligible to participate
Be majoring in a STEM field (preferred)
Be a U.S. Citizen or Permanent Resident
Have a GPA of at least 2.3 on a 4.0 scale
A FREE, convenient, one-application process to reach companies throughout Virginia
Excellent opportunity for hands-on experience related to the student’s field of study
A Certificate of Completion signed by the Governor
Ability to check companies’ profiles and indicate interest in specific internship opportunities or companies
Ability to update applications so they remain valid for one year after graduation
Press releases about the internship are sent to the student’s hometown newspaper
Special Programs
VSGC is partnering with the CCI INNOVATE Cyber Program, a program that will help to develop work skills necessary to succeed in the cybersecurity and IT fields while resolving important issues faced by local business and industry. Participants will work within a team to identify a challenge or issue related to cybersecurity and utilize the design thinking approach to problem-solving and research within a high-impact team environment to identify solutions. Apply via the student link provided above.  Learn more about this opportunity here: https://odu.edu/chip/innovatecyber .
Companies
Is your company planning to hire undergraduate interns? CSIIP is a great way to access statewide science, technology, engineering and math talent from a single online source for free. Interns offer a fresh perspective on the latest technologies and can provide an ongoing source of potential future employees. We will help pair you with the best applicant for your needs.
Registration Benefits
Subsidies available to support current and future aerospace, aviation (including UAV), and cybersecurity internships up to $5000
Year-round support from CSIIP staff, regardless of STEM discipline, to customize your experience and ensure you are connected to the right intern for your company
Recognition from the Governor for being a program participant
Recognition through hometown press releases created for each CSIIP intern
Ability to search the CSIIP database for pre-screened, qualified candidates. Search can be done by college/university, standing, major, distance, skills, or keywords
Companies select and hire students directly
Companies will establish pay rates. Interns must be compensated a minimum of $10.00 or more per hour
Notify the VSGC of any change in the internship position description or period of performance
Ensure a quality internship experience through exposure to real-world work with meaningful position responsibilities
Participate in an evaluation survey at the end of the internship period, addressing the intern’s performance, the company’s experience with the intern, and suggestions for improvement to the internship program
Assume all employment liability for the student during the internship period
The company will provide a detailed position description, supervisor’s name, title and contact information, site location, pay, hours per week, and dates of employment
Provide all FICA contributions
Special Programs
Coastal Virginia (COVA CCI) Opportunity: The Virginia Space Grant Consortium is partnering with Old Dominion University and the Commonwealth Cyber Initiative (CCI), specifically with the Coastal Virginia CCI (COVA CCI) to provide subsidies to assist Coastal Virginia small-medium businesses with cybersecurity-related company-paid undergraduate internships. Through its established CSIIP, VSGC will lead the COVA CCI Node in cultivating and supporting meaningful experiential learning opportunities for Virginia’s undergraduate students pursuing a cybersecurity-related field at a Virginia state school.
CCI State-wide Opportunity: VSGC was also awarded funding through the CCI to provide additional subsidies to assist small-medium businesses across the entire state of Virginia offering cybersecurity-related paid undergraduate internships for students attending a Virginia state school.
