Student is eligible to enroll in ENGL 101 (Composition Studio) + ENGL 110C (English Composition): co-enrollment
3
Student is eligible to enroll in ENGL 110C (English Composition)
Student has passed the initial assessment and met one of the prerequisites for the W-course in the major.
Within 72 hours of completing the tool, students will receive an e-mail in their ODU account with their score as well as detailed instructions for registration. In addition to this e-mail, students may access their score by logging back into wspt.odu.edu should they need to. Tool content, however, is not accessible upon completion.
FAQ
How do I know if I need to use the WSPT?
If ODU Admissions has awarded you credit for ENGL 110C or ENGL 211C, then you do not need to use the WSPT. If you anticipate being awarded credit for ENGL 110C or ENGL 211C, please contact ODU Admissions to inquire about the timeline for that credit evaluation by e-mailing transfereval@odu.edu . If you do not know your credit evaluation status by at least 3 days prior to your scheduled orientation, then you should use the WSPT to receive a placement result. For more information about college credit eligibility, please visit the university's academic records page .
What is the Writing Success Placement Tool (WSPT)?
The WSPT is an application that measures students' writing and reading abilities and considers their previous learning experiences to determine which ODU English composition course sequence is the best fit for them. The WSPT uses a combination of high school GPA, performance on writing, reading, and grammar diagnostics, and self-assessment to make this determination. Anyone entering Old Dominion University without credit for ENGL 110C English Composition should use the WSPT.
The tool invites students to think carefully about their readiness for college writing and reading. Students who are given the agency to make their own writing placement decisions tend to perform better, especially when they, themselves, opt in to support courses. Therefore, the WSPT operates from a guided self-placement model.
Students who score a "3" will enroll directly into ENGL 110C (3 credit hours). These students cannot opt of this placement in the WSPT, but they may appeal their placement if they believe they could benefit from taking ENGL 101, as well, by emailing writingplacement@odu.edu .
Students who score a "1" are strongly encouraged to register for a section of ENGL 101 and a section of ENGL 110C (6 credit hours total); however, they can choose to opt out of the support course on the closing screen of the WSPT. With that said, students are not restricted by the choice they make in the WSPT; if they choose to register for ENGL 101 +110C after rejecting their initial WSPT placement in 101, or if they choose to register for ENGL 110C without the ENGL 101 support course after opting into ENGL 101, they may do so by contacting the Director of Writing Placement and Support at writingplacement@odu.edu , or by asking the ENGL 110C instructor for a pre-requisite override.
Students will receive their score and directions for registration via email within 72 hours of completion.
The WSPT must be submitted at least 3 BUSINESS DAYS (Monday through Friday) prior to the start of your orientation. If you fail to meet this deadline, your placement data may not be updated in the system, which can affect your ability to register for courses. If you run into any issues, concerning writing placement, please e-mail writingplacement@odu.edu or contact the Director of Writing Placement and Support, Mary Beth Pennington at mpenning@odu.edu . Please check your ODU email thoroughly and wait at least 72 hours after using the WSPT before emailing to ask about your score.
How long will the WSPT take?
You are encouraged to take the WSPT when you can devote a couple of hours to reading and responding to questions, drafting and revising written responses, and answering the survey questions. Students who have completed the WSPT report that it takes an average of 75 minutes to complete. Of course some students take longer, and some finish more quickly.
What does the WSPT include?
The WSPT includes the following modules: Honor Pledge, Academic History, Writing Assessment, Reading Assessment, Grammar Assessment, and About Composition at ODU.
What is the time limit for taking the WSPT?
While the tool, itself, is not timed, students should not leave a section inactive for longer than 15-20 minutes, as it may cause the tool to time out, potentially losing previous work. Students who wish to take a break should complete the section in which they are working and close out the tool. When ready to return, they may log back in and pick up with the next section when they are ready.
Do I need to have anything prepared or with me when I do the WSPT?
You will need to know your high school GPA and the grade earned in your most recent English class, so you may find it helpful to have your high school transcripts close.
Do you have any tips?
We suggest that you draft your written responses in a document and copy and paste them into the WSPT so, if something goes wrong, you have a copy. Also, anything you write for this tool may be used in determining your placement. It is in your best interest to respond to questions with full sentences.
What if I have concerns with my score?
If you do not feel that the score you have received is an accurate representation of you as a writer, please contact the Director of Writing Placement and Support, Mary Beth Pennington at writingplacement@odu.edu , and she will put you in contact with a writing advisor who will review your score, offer feedback, and change your score.
How will I gain access to the WSPT?
You will see a link to the WSPT in your admitted student checklist and/or your advisor will direct you to the link in your Canvas orientation site. The tool can also be accessed through wspt.odu.edu and the Writing Placement and Support website . Students will log-in with their Midas credentials. Please note that you will need to access and complete the WSPT at least 3 business days prior to your orientation session.
When does my access to the WSPT expire?
Once completed, previous responses cannot be accessed. However, students can log back in to the WSPT to be reminded of their score and to retrieve basic information about registration at any point.
What if I have taken an equivalent composition course at a different university?
If the ODU Admissions Office has not granted transferrable credit for ENGL 110C upon processing your official transcripts, please refer to the Transfer Course Equivalency tool to review how courses from your previous institution are accepted into ODU. After reviewing the Transfer Course Equivalency tool you may contact the Director of Writing Placement and Support, Kole Matheson at kmatheso@odu.edu . Please note that you should be prepared to present a syllabus from the previous composition course, as well as other supporting materials, to be reviewed by ODU for course equivalency.
How does Writing Placement and Support know whether I--not someone else--took my WSPT?
The WSPT may be one of the first opportunities an admitted student will have to uphold the ODU Honor Pledge. The WSPT is covered by ODU's honor code, so students must sign an honor pledge before beginning the process. Students who violate this pledge, even those who are newly admitted, are subject to university sanctions for honor violations. However, the most substantial consequence will be felt by the student. Accurate placement ensures that the student is provided the support and instruction needed to be successful in their writing courses and at ODU, in general. For example, if a student is placed into ENGL 110C before they are ready to succeed in the course, chances are much greater that the student will fail the course.
What if technical problems arise as I am taking the WSPT?
Please consult the Writing Placement and Support website for updates regarding the status of the WSPT if you are experiencing technical problems. If no updates exist on the website, please contact ODU's ITS help desk . Should ITS be unable to solve your problem, you may contact the Director of Writing Support, Dr. Mary Beth Pennington, at writingplacement@odu.edu .
May I reuse the WSPT to achieve a different score?
Students may only use the tool once. Since the WSPT uses a combination of factors to determine the best placement for students, it cannot be reused to achieve different results.
ENGL 101: Composition Studio (formerly UNIV 150)
Course Description
English 101 Composition Studio is an immersive study of writing, rhetoric, and composing concepts and strategies designed to complement and extend each student's English 110C curriculum. English 101 provides dedicated one-on-one and small group reading, writing, and non-cognitive or "studenting" support for ENGL 110C students as they learn to navigate university literacy expectations.
3 credits
Co-enrollment/ corequisite with ENGL 110C, which means that students take ENGL 101 and ENGL 110C at the same time.
Students who place into ENGL 101 will sign up for both ENGL 101 and a section of ENGL 110C.
Prerequisite: A score of 1 on the Writing Success Placement Tool (WSPT) or an override from the Director of Writing Placement and Support.
Registering for ENGL 101+110C
Students who have scored a "1" on the WSPT can enroll in corequisite courses, ENGL 101+110C (6 credits), or they may choose to enroll in ENGL 110C without the support course if they are confident they can pass the course without additional help.
*Please note that students should enter the CRN for ENGL 101 first, followed by their chosen ENGL 110C CRN. Students may not enroll in ENGL 101 without the corequisite ENGL 110C. .
Tips for ensuring you are prepared to register:
Discuss your placement decision with your advisor.
Log back into the WSPT: wspt.odu.edu where you can find your score.
Save, print, or take a photo of the score e-mail you receive for later reference.
What is special about ENGL 101?
Curriculum
English 101 students receive dedicated attention from an experienced writing instructor on reading, writing, and the non-cognitive aspects of being a successful student in ENGL 110C. The course includes weekly one-on-one and/or small group conferences wherein instructors invite students to reflect on their ENGL 110C coursework, to develop manageable goals for completing assignments, and to begin reading or drafting their assignments. ENGL 101 instructors also lead class discussions and activities informed by patterns of reading, writing, or "studenting" concerns that emerge in individual conferences.
Benefits
Individualized Instruction
ENGL 101 is capped at 12 (while other general education writing courses are capped at 19), which means students have access to more individualized instruction and support from their instructor. Instructors will spend at least half of the course working individually with students in either one-on-one or small group conferences so that students have the space and time to ask questions, to reflect upon, and to practice their reading and writing skills.
Double the Writing and Reading Support
While students may enroll in sections of ENGL 101 and ENGL 110C taught by the same instructor, they also have the freedom to enroll in a 101 course taught by a different instructor. Students with different instructors will have two college writing experts dedicated to their success in ENGL 110C over 6 credit hours. Students with the same 101 and 110C instructor have the advantage of getting more immediate, constructive feedback on their progress in 110C
Mentoring Relationships
The individualized instruction in ENGL 101 makes it possible for students to develop closer relationships with their instructor and peers. ENGL 101 instructors come to understand their students' unique writing and reading behaviors in ways that build trust and mutual respect. Small group work can create closer bonds among peers and can enrich students' understanding of how other students are experiencing their ENGL 110C coursework and broader university expectations. These relationships empower students to be more reflective and engaged.
ENGL 101 Policies
Adding ENGL 101
If a student who is placed directly into ENGL 110C without the ENGL 101 requirement feels that they need extra support to be successful in ENGL 110C and wants to enroll in ENGL 101, they or their advisor should contact Kole Matheson, the Director of Writing Placement and Support, at writingplacement@odu.edu before the Add/Drop date for the semester has passed to see if they are eligible. Students who are not eligible or who seek additional writing support after the Add/Drop date should plan to visit the Writing Center during the semester.
Dropping and Withdrawal from ENGL 101
Students may drop ENGL 101 within the add/drop period if they feel that they can succeed in ENGL 110C without it. Should you find yourself needing to drop or withdraw from these courses, be sure to speak with your advisor right away to discuss how this might impact your scholarships, financial aid, and full-time status.
Grades in ENGL 101
Students who earn a D or higher in ENGL 101 will have earned a passing grade. They will earn three credits for the course, and their GPAs will be impacted accordingly. Students should keep in mind, however, that the co-enrollment course, ENGL 110C, must be passed with a C or higher in order to move on to the required 200-level composition course. There are also some classes that require a grade of C or better in ENGL 110C as a prerequisite to enrollment.
More information about grades in ENGL 101 and ENGL 110C:
Students who fail both ENGL 101 and ENGL 110C are required to retake ENGL 110C but are strongly recommended to retake ENGL 101.
Students who earn a passing grade in ENGL 101 but do not pass ENGL 110C with a C or better are required to retake ENGL 110C but are not required to retake ENGL 101.
Students who do not earn a passing grade in ENGL 101 but pass ENGL 110C with a C or better are not required to retake ENGL 101.
FAQ
Is ENGL 101 the equivalent of UNIV 150?
Yes and no. While ENGL 101 is replacing UNIV 150 as the course in which those students with a score of "1" on the WSPT must enroll, the course itself, as well as the process for registering and taking ENGL 101 are much different than UNIV 150.
What happens if I have failed UNIV 150?
Starting in Spring 2020, those students who have failed UNIV 150 can retake the WSPT to see if they place differently, or they can automatically enroll in ENGL 101 +110C.
Can a student take ENGL 101 online and ENGL 110C on-site/face-to-face (or vice versa)?
ENGL 101+110C courses share the same delivery type. If your ENGL 101 course is face-to-face, your ENGL 110C course will be face-to-face, also. If your ENGL 101 course is delivered as online synchronous, your ENGL 110C course will either be online synchronous or online asynchronous.
What do I do if I have failed 101 but not 110C?
Students who pass 110C with a "C" but who fail the connected ENGL 101 (by earning lower than a D) do not need to retake ENGL 101, although retaking 101 is encouraged. Students who wish to retake only ENGL 101 should contact Kole Matheson at writingplacement@odu.edu to discuss registration options. Please review the "ENGL 101 Policies" tab above for further clarification.
What do I do if I have failed 110C but not 101?
Students who do not pass 110C with a "C" or above , regardless of ENGL 101 grade, must retake the course in order to advance to ENGL 211C. They are not required to retake ENGL 101.
What do I do if I have failed both ENGL 101 and ENGL 110C?
Students who fail both ENGL 101 (by earning a D- or lower) and ENGL 110C (by earning a C- or lower) are required to retake ENGL 110C and are strongly recommended, but not required, to retake ENGL 101.
Does it matter which section of 101 and 110C I register for?
Students may enroll in any section of 101 and any section of ENGL 110C they prefer. Students can choose to have the same instructor for both courses, if their schedule allows, or students can choose different instructors for each course.
Do I have to sign up for both 101 and 110C?
Students who score a "1" on the WSPT are not required to enroll in ENGL 101+110C, but we hope that students will take the WSPT recommendation seriously and will think carefully before opting out of the additional 3 credits of writing and reading support.
