Square Feet of Gaming Space
50+
8
Game Titles in Competition
Pursue your passions in esports and gaming! Whether your interest is competitive, casual, or academic, our gaming Monarchs have a space to thrive! You could participate as an extracurricular activity with student clubs, tryout for our varsity teams, or work towards developing a career path in the game design & development industry . Whatever your goal, ours is to support yours with a well-rounded and developmental environment for all students to enjoy.
Questions?
Contact Grant Deppen , Assistant Director of Intramural Sports and Esports or Paris Bredehoft , Esports Coordinator.
Monarch Esports Arena
ODU Webb Center | Room 2114 (2nd Floor) | 1301 W 49th St, Norfolk, VA 23529
757-683-3384
The Monarch Esports Arena (MEA) is a multi-purpose facility with 2,400+ sq. ft. of gaming space that is the home to ODU's Varsity Esports teams and much more. The MEA features 50 gaming computers, consoles, and a library of games to choose from. The arena also features a broadcast and streaming studio, as well as a console area for relaxing, social gaming.
The MEA hosts various special programs, on-campus events, and is available for reservation during specific periods. Because the facility serves multiple roles and populations, there is a possibility that functions of the space overlap. See Rec Well Facility Reservations for policy info.
General Student Policies
When can I play video games at the Monarch Esports Arena?
Students can drop-in for gaming hours during open hours 12pm - 8pm daily* (except holidays).
*Split into 2-hour blocks, 12PM-2PM, 2-4PM, 4-6PM, 6-8PM*
Policies:
Users must be a current ODU Student
Must use PC's with GGLeap software system
Must use provided keyboard and mouse
Pre-Registration for a 2-hour time block is required
Limited to 2-hours per student, per day
Food is not allowed
Drink must be in a solid container and have a sealable top
Required to leave at the end of your 2-hour session
Varsity Team Player Policies
Hours:
Varsity team players and staff may utilize the facility throughout the operating hours of Webb Center .
Policies:
Varsity players will not be required to formally register if they're taking part in a team activity or player development.
Team and player development activities must be known to the Assistant Director prior to use.
May use personal keyboard and mouse
Food is not allowed
Drink must be in a solid container and have a sealable top
Equipment & Specs
