Graduate Assistantships
Graduate Assistantships
Qualified graduate students have the opportunity to receive funding while in the graduate program at ODU. Many of our graduate students are funded either through Graduate Research Assistantships (GRA) or Graduate Teaching Assistantships (GTA). However, students are not guaranteed a graduate assistantship, and not all interested and eligible students will receive an offer.
All funding is contingent upon the student making satisfactory progress towards the completion of their degree and maintaining at least a 3.0 GPA.
Graduate Research Assistantship (GRA)
GRA positions are funded through external grants obtained by individual faculty members. GRA positions are awarded at the discretion of the faculty member who will be funding the position. Stipends may vary. (NOTE: These positions are often reserved for PhD students.)
Students are required to complete at least 6 graduate credit hours each semester while funded. For reduced course load, file M4 or D4 form.
For MS students, at least a 50% tuition waiver is included (in-state MS students are eligible for a 100% tuition waiver). For PhD students, a 100% tuition waiver is included.
Graduate Teaching Assistantship (GTA)
A number of GTA positions (GTA instructors and graders) are available to Computer Science graduate students. Criteria for the selection of GTAs include:
Ability and willingness to teach or grade computer science courses
Current GPA (must be > 3.0)
Academic standing
Students must carry 9 graduate credits in order to be eligible for a GTA, although there may be an exception if this is your final semester or you have passed the PhD candidacy exam. For reduced course load, file M4 or D4 form.
For MS students, at least a 50% tuition waiver is included (in-state MS students are eligible for a 100% tuition waiver). For PhD students, a 100% tuition waiver is included.
Students interested in a GTA position must apply each semester: Apply for a Graduate Teaching Assistantship Applications will also be solicited via email by the Assistant Chair, Dr. Zeil .
The Graduate Teaching Instructors Institute (GTAI) is required for all M.S. and Ph.D. students who will be working as Graduate Teaching Assistant Instructors. GTAI certification is required before the GTA is approved to teach.
International students may also be required to take the SPEAK test .
University Regulations
