Class of 2025: Ruth Sirma Graduates Workforce Ready with a Master's in Economics
Class of 2025: Ruth Sirma Graduates Workforce Ready with a Master's in Economics
April 23, 2025
By Joy Vann
Ruth Chelimo Sirma’s interest in economics, particularly the dynamics of supply and demand, began while she was in high school in Kenya where she excelled in mathematics and business.
After earning a Bachelor of Science in Economics from Multimedia University of Kenya, she is now completing her Master of Arts in Economics from the Strome College of Business at Old Dominion University where she specializes in econometrics and quantitative economics.
“After I received my bachelor’s degree, I knew there was more to learn in economics and I felt the need to pursue a master's degree, because I knew there was so much more that I could accomplish,” she said.
As a student, she excelled in her coursework and outside of the classroom she became a leader.
As a graduate research assistant at the Dragas Center for Economic Analysis and Policy, she applies R programming (an open-source software used in data analytics) and statistical modeling to analyze economic trends.
She is also a teaching assistant. In addition to grading assignments and quizzes, she offers personalized or group support to help students understand course material.
Under the guidance of Jay Walker, Ph.D., associate professor of economics and Graduate Program Director for the master’s in economics, she became the Graduate Student Ambassador to guide students academically, organize open house events and facilitate student-faculty connections.
“As the graduate ambassador for the program, I interacted more with the professor and shared my experiences with prospective students and guided them through the application process,” she said.
Dr. Walker said Sirma is the kind of student professors hope to have — intelligent, motivated, and one who works to lift others up along the way.
“Ruth Sirma represents the best of our MA program — thoughtful, driven and engaged with the ODU community. Her leadership as our student ambassador has made a lasting impact, and I am very excited to see where her talents take her next,” Dr. Walker said.
Sirma said she appreciates the supportive community at ODU. She has especially enjoyed her roles as an outreach leader and vice president of the Global Student Friendship organization, which assists international students.
“We bring in speakers to talk about topics like adapting to a new culture, safety and financial advice. There are social activities like Tuesday luncheons and Friday dinners, helping us create traditions away from home. It allows us to celebrate the holidays of our countries while also participating in American ones,” she said. “The program also provides furniture for new international students and engages in community outreach by partnering with different organizations to give back. There are many other roles it plays, supported by numerous community volunteers. I've loved being part of it.”
After graduation, she plans to join the business world, aiming for roles focused on analytics.
“At the moment, I intend to go to the business world and apply the skills that I've gained so far. I initially considered a path in academia, but I believe it's important to gain real-world experience in the workforce before pursuing that route,” she said.
As she prepares to graduate, she’s grateful for the support she’s received at ODU.
“I have liked every moment here and all of the opportunities that I've been exposed to,” she said. “I'm so grateful for all the guidance that I've received.”
She expressed thanks to Dr. Walker; Dr. Vinod Agarwal, deputy director of the Dragas Center for Economic Analysis and Policy, for whom she was a teaching assistant for four semesters; and her capstone project supervisor, Dr. Alex Cardazzi, an assistant professor of economics.
