Different Sports
Sport Clubs offer competitive opportunities to play in non-varsity sports
The Old Dominion University sport club program provides opportunities for students to play in non-varsity sports while developing skills in leadership, administration, organization and fundraising. A sport club is a registered student organization designed to serve individuals motivated by a common interest and desire to compete in a favorite sport. Sport clubs play other colleges and universities, but are not part of NCAA; they are supported by the University through the Recreation and Wellness department. Practices and games are determined by club officers. Sport clubs may not require a full year commitment.
The ODU Sport Club program currently has 16 active clubs serving more than 700 students. Our program sponsors men's, women's and co-ed teams in sports ranging from soccer to equestrian to ice hockey. The level of competition for each club also varies. Some clubs practice three to four days a week and compete almost every weekend, while others practice one to two days a week and compete once a semester.
Questions?
Contact SheAyre Gavin , Coordinator of Sport & Youth Programs.
Ready to Join a Sport Club?
Create an account in IMLeagues using your ODU student email.
Select the club you'd like to join and select 'Join Team.'
Sign the waiver and send your request to join!
Complete the Acknowledgement of Risk form for each club you are interested in joining.
Complete a Sport Club Physical. This must be completed annually.
Provide proof of medical/health insurance to a sport club professional staff member or by uploading it to your online forms. Individuals with health insurance that is shown on a military ID or military dependent ID should NOT upload that document.
Club dues can be paid via Pay Pal to ' sportclubs@odu.edu '. The person paying the dues should leave a comment noting the name of the person that the dues are for and the club that they are intended for. The payer should also select the "Sending to a Friend" option because the money will go to the club account, not to ODU.
Complete the online baseline concussion test. The test code will be sent to you after all registration documents have been received and club dues have been paid.
Contact club(s) directly for information on the practice schedule. Contact information is listed below.
Need assistance joining a club, filling out forms, or completing reports? Check out our how-to video playlist !
Recreation & Wellness
