Equipment Desk
Sports
Participate in Intramural Sports leagues, like volleyball, soccer and basketball, just for fun! Or join more competitive Club Sports to compete against other University club teams. You can also drop in for a pickup game at the SRWC and forget we also have an Esports Facility ! Learn More ►
Activity Courts
We have three courts for pickup basketball and volleyball, a multi-activity court for indoor soccer, floor hockey and badminton, and three racquetball courts that can be reserved for up to one hour per day. Pickup Games ►
Rock Climbing Wall
Our 25-foot high climbing wall is designed to resemble natural rock features. Climbers can choose routes set by staff or climb the natural features. Trained staff can guide climbers of all skill levels on the 1,125 square feet of climbing space. Start Climbing►
Fitness Floor
Enjoy over 15,000 sq feet of cardio and weight equipment and a CrossFit area. Get a free evaluation in the Fitness Assessment Room to help you pick the best personal training package for your needs. Fitness Programs►
Attend a Class
The SRWC boasts four fitness studios, including a three-tiered cycling studio and a TRX suspension training zone. Group exercise classes are free for students and SRWC members. When classes are not in session, Studio A is available for drop-in recreation fun! Class Schedule ►
Aquatics & Safety
The J.C. Scrap Chandler Pool is an eight-lane, 25-yard indoor pool with depths between 4-15 feet. Members can participate in open swim, water fitness classes, safety & lifeguard certification courses and swimming lessons . Locker and shower facilities are also available.
Outdoor Adventure Center
Located in the SRWC and home of the Outdoor Adventure Program at ODU, a wide variety of camping and outdoor equipment rentals are available for members. It is also home to a bike rental & repair shop. Learn More ►
SRWC Field & Outdoor Areas
Behind the SRWC, this multi-purpose field is used by Intramural Sports and SportClub teams, and is also available for pickup games year-round. The Whitehurst Beach Volleyball Course are also located two blocks away from the the SRWC and available for use.
