Support Healthcare
Focused On  Accelerating  Advances  In Healthcare
The last few years showed everyone just how vital a role healthcare plays for any region. They also revealed some of our healthcare system’s problems. So, in 2021 it was only natural that ODU bolstered collaborative efforts in this space with regional partners such as Eastern Virginia Medical School, Sentara Healthcare, and Norfolk State University. Together with our partner institutions, we are seeking to improve the level of care offered to the Hampton Roads region while reducing disparities that have existed for far too long.
When it comes to something as essential as our health, and the health of our neighbors, our full dedication is required.
Opening the first accredited School of Public Health in the Commonwealth, which is a joint endeavor with EVMS and Norfolk State, will advance our region and better serve our community.
Providing Better Care For Our Communities
Universities like ours can be a force of good for our students and alumni. If we’re strategic, we can also shift the future quality of life for our region. Currently, ODU is a top employer in the healthcare space. We are making it our duty to improve outcomes across Hampton Roads, particularly making a difference in underserved communities.
Part of this plan will be to invest in mental health initiatives. We are seeking $2 million to expand research and $3 million to endow a chair in mental health nursing.
Our new school of public health will also have a robust library, equipping the public with the latest information, guidance, and resources. To fund this center of knowledge for our community, we are seeking $3 million.
With our College of Health Sciences playing an important role in this initiative, we will seek to support a professorship in substance abuse nursing and a chair in mental health nursing.
In addition, we are planning to establish a Center for Movement Health and Disability, building on our work to reduce falls among our region’s elderly population.
Partnerships propel progress. We are seeking $5 million to expand strategic partnerships to help us continue to bring better care to our campus, as well as our community.
Give Now
