Computer Science, Teaching Licensure (B.S.)
Computer Science, Teaching Licensure (B.S.)
Program Highlights Careers Courses Requirements Transfer Cost Next-Steps Contact
About this Program
Old Dominion University offers a Bachelor of Science in Computer Science with a Major in Secondary Computer Science Education (6-12). The program leads to eligibility for teacher licensure in Virginia and is available only to individuals holding a baccalaureate degree or completing requirements for a Bachelor of Science in Computer Science.
Apply
Program Highlights
Computer science education begins in elementary school grades and prepares the next generation of college students in how to use computers to solve problems in any discipline.
Monarch Teach will place you into the classrooms of public schools as your complete your degree at ODU.
This newly approved program champions the need to mentor educate our children in the exciting field of computer science. Be one of the first to qualify for the new positions in public education.
Celebrate the diversity of the students in our program as you prepare to challenge the future problem solvers in computer science.
AT A GLANCE
This course explores the historical, social, and philosophical implications of mathematics and science through…
STEM 402
Perspectives on STEM
This course explores the historical, social, and philosophical implications of mathematics and science through investigations of significant episodes in their history. Students are brought to understand that science and mathematics are not merely body of facts, theories, and techniques but involve diverse processes by which they are continually generated and reformulated. Prerequisites: Junior standing, admission to the MonarchTeach program plus 12 credit hours of science or math courses, and STEM 401. Pre- or corequisite: STEM 485.
CS 355
Survey of significant features of programming languages. Language types including imperative, functional, logical, and…
CS 355
Principles of Programming Languages
Survey of significant features of programming languages. Language types including imperative, functional, logical, and object-oriented are covered. Concepts include lexical and syntactic analysis, type systems, flow control, modularity, and parallel programming. Small programs in several languages required. Laboratory work required. Prerequisites: CS 252 and a grade of C or better in any of: CS 250, CS 251, CS 253, ECE 250.
STEM 401
Through a dynamic process of investigation and collaboration, students aim to master techniques for project-based…
STEM 401
Project Based Instruction in STEM Education
Through a dynamic process of investigation and collaboration, students aim to master techniques for project-based investigations in STEM classrooms, and teach project-based lessons in the secondary classroom. Students work in teams to formulate questions, make predictions, design investigations, collect and analyze data, make products and share ideas. The use of assessments to improve student learning is emphasized in the course. This course includes a field component that consists of two observation days and three teaching days in a secondary classroom. Prerequisites: STEM 201 and STEM 202.
Degree Program Guide
Careers
Check out these ideas from ODU's Center for Career & Leadership Development and the Occupational Information Network (O*NET) . A median salary is a midpoint of what people typically earn—half of those surveyed earned above the median salary, and half earned below.
Computer Science Teachers, Postsecondary
$91,590 Median Salary
Teach courses in computer science. May specialize in a field of computer science, such as the design and function of computers or operations and research analysis. Includes both teachers primarily engaged in teaching and those who do a combination of teaching and research.
Career/Technical Education Teachers, Secondary School
$61,010 Median Salary
Teach occupational, career and technical, or vocational subjects at the secondary school level in public or private schools.
Computer and Information Research Scientists
$145,080 Median Salary
Conduct research into fundamental computer and information science as theorists, designers, or inventors. Develop solutions to problems in the field of computer hardware and software.
Career/Technical Education Teachers, Middle School
$61,680 Median Salary
Teach occupational, career and technical, or vocational subjects in public or private schools at the middle, intermediate, or junior high level, which falls between elementary and senior high school as defined by applicable laws and regulations.
Requirements
What are the requirements to apply for Computer Science, Teaching Licensure (B.S.) at ODU?
Students entering the Bachelor of Science program in Computer Science, Teaching Licensure (B.S.) should meet the minimum university admission requirements Undergraduate Admission .
Students must first declare the computer science teacher preparation track as their major with the computer science departmental advisor. All students must apply for and be admitted into the approved computer science teacher preparation program. Students must meet the required criteria for admission by passing the Virginia Board of Education prescribed assessments and earn the minimum required grade point averages (GPA).
More Program and Degree Requirements
Transfer
At ODU, we understand that as a transfer student you have unique needs that require a wide array of campus resources. The Center for Advising Administration and Academic Partnerships aims to create a transfer inclusive culture that supports the successful...
Transfer Info
Cost
Estimated rates for the 2025-26 academic year. Rates are subject to change. Other fees are assessed for special services and certain academic programs. Anyone that is not a current Virginia resident will be charged non-resident rates. That includes international students.
Active Duty Military Rate
