Dr. Hussein Abdel-Wahab Memorial Graduate Fellowship
Dr. Hussein Abdel-Wahab Memorial Graduate Fellowship
The Dr. Hussein Abdel-Wahab Memorial Graduate Fellowship was created in January 2017 to honor the memory of Dr. Hussein Abdel-Wahab, an inspiring and well-loved professor in the Department of Computer Science at Old Dominion University, after his sudden and untimely passing on December 24, 2016.
Dr. Abdel-Wahab joined ODU's Department of Computer Science in 1980 as an Associate Professor. While at ODU, he played a critical role in developing the BS, MS, and PhD programs in Computer Science and served as Graduate Program Director for 15 years. He graduated 15 PhD students at ODU, served as co-advisor for four PhD students at other institutions, and graduated more than 40 MS students. Dr. Abdel-Wahab was a very popular teacher among both undergraduate and graduate students. He developed and taught 25 different courses during his time at ODU. Dr. Abdel-Wahab was a highly-respected faculty member, dedicated teacher, and a compassionate man. Dr. Abdel-Wahab was passionate about his students and aiding them in their first steps of success.
In his honor, Old Dominion University wishes to continue that supporting hand for graduate students in the Department of Computer Science in the form of the Dr. Hussein Abdel-Wahab Memorial Graduate Fellowship. This fellowship will go to provide stipend support for graduate students in the department. We highly appreciate the generosity of our donors that helped make this fund a reality.
Donate to this Fund
Online: http://bit.ly/HusseinAbdelWahabODU
By Check: Make checks to "ODU Educational Foundation" with the memo line "Abdel-Wahab Memorial Graduate Fellowship Fund" and mail to:
ODU Educational Foundation
4th Floor University Village Bookstore
4417 Monarch Way Fl. 4
Norfolk, VA 23529
Scholarship Information
The Department of Computer Science selects one graduate student each year to receive the Dr. Hussein Abdel-Wahab Memorial Scholarship. An award is up to $5,000 for one year. This award does not include a tuition waiver, but it can be combined with a GRA or GTA position that includes a tuition waiver. Selection is based on a comprehensive review of the student’s academic record, faculty recommendations, and an essay that highlights the student’s achievements in academic activities such as peer-reviewed publications, software development, research projects, departmental or university service, presentations, or other innovative activities. A student is limited to receive maximum once of either the Hussein Abdel-Wahab Memorial Graduate Fellowship or Irwin B. Levinstein Scholarship. The application packet is to be submitted to the Graduate Program Director at csgpd@odu.edu .
Computer Science
