International Admissions
Join the Monarch Community
Students all around the world can enroll at Old Dominion University to complete undergraduate, graduate, and certificate programs online.
Our team is ready to guide you through the admission process.
*If you are currently living within the United States with an F1 student visa, you may not be able to enroll in online programs.
Students in all 50 U.S. states
Home Countries
Students from 52 home countries
How to Apply
When you apply to ODU, there may be specific requirements depending on which program you want to pursue. In addition to meeting general ODU admission requirements and any program-specific requirements, you must provide:
Official transcripts or third-party transcript evaluation documents for prior academic work.
For non-native speakers of English, evidence of English language proficiency.
Official transcripts and third-party evaluation documents may be sent to ODUGlobal by email ( globalintladm@odu.edu ) or by physical mail to: Old Dominion University, Office of International Admissions, 2006 Dragas Hall, Norfolk, VA 23529 USA.
Please review the Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) below. If you have any other questions or need clarification about international student admission to take online courses, please contact our ODUGlobal Admissions team at globalintladm@odu.edu .
Online International Student FAQ
How do I demonstrate English proficiency?
If your native language is not English, you must demonstrate English language proficiency when you apply. You can show proficiency through exam scores like TOEFL or through previous academic work.
Review Options to Demonstrate English Proficiency
After reviewing the options available, if you believe that you won't meet the English language proficiency requirement based on your academic credentials, please review the testing options and ask the testing provider to send your score to ODU when complete. Duolingo is the recommended option.
Once you have satisfied the English proficiency requirement and we have received all documents needed for your application, we will then move to review your application for an admissions decision.
Do you accept third-party transcript evaluations?
We can use a third-party evaluation if it clearly states that it is based on official documents received by the evaluator and copies of those documents are included in the evaluation file. An official copy of the evaluation document can be sent from the evaluator to ODU.
We suggest using NACES member organizations for third-party evaluations.
Note: If an admission decision is made based on a third-party evaluation that includes copies of the official transcripts, ODU will still require its own official copies of your transcripts. These must be provided before you can register for your second semester at ODU.
How do I send official copies of my transcripts?
Official transcripts must be sent to ODU directly from a student's previous institutions. Transcripts forwarded by students cannot be accepted as official documents.
If a transcript cannot be provided in English, a word-for-word translation is also required.
Official transcripts may be sent to ODUGlobal by email ( globalintladm@odu.edu ) or by physical mail to: Old Dominion University, Office of International Admissions, 2006 Dragas Hall, Norfolk, VA 23529 USA.
Can I transfer credits earned at an institution outside the U.S.?
For students offered admission, additional course information will most likely be needed before transfer equivalencies can be determined.
Our advisors may ask for course syllabi and course descriptions from university catalogs in order to determine transfer equivalencies.
Can I start online and finish my program in-person?
Current ODUGlobal students who want to take in-person classes at ODU's campus in the U.S. will work through ODU's Visa and Immigration Service Advising office first.
Once everything is ready for your move to the U.S., you will submit a campus change request form so you can register for in-person classes.
Do I need a visa to take online classes?
No. Students taking ODUGlobal courses from their home country do not need a visa. If you want to reside in the U.S. and take classes in-person, you will need to obtain a visa.
Some visa types (such as the F-1 student visa) may not allow you to take online classes while you are residing in the U.S.
I was half a world away, and the staff was very supportive. They were always there when I had a question or needed anything.
Sadiq Omer '24
