Forms
Please do not send credit card information via email.
All forms are in PDF format and require the free Adobe Reader to open and/or print or save with data (if applicable).
Add/Drop/Withdraw Form
Use this form to register for courses if you are admitted or currently enrolled as a degree-seeking or non-degree student and are unable to register using LEO Online. This form is also used to DROP or ADD courses during the drop/add period or to WITHDRAW from classes prior to the withdrawal deadline when the student is unable to use LEO Online to withdraw due to holds preventing registration.
Consult the Academic Calendar for the current semester to determine the exact dates and deadlines. Includes individual override approval indicators and required signatures (two) for maximum credit hour waiver.
NOTE: International students (F and J visa holders) who plan to drop below the required credit hours for immigration purposes must first obtain approval from Visa & Immigration Service Advising (VISA), 2006 Dragas Hall.
Add/Drop/Withdraw Form
Address/Name Change Form
(Changes to addresses can be performed using LEO Online or the University Portal, except for employees, who must notify Human Resources of address changes.)
Submit this form to the Registrar's Office for name/address changes. Name changes (other than obvious typographical errors) cannot be processed without a copy of your new Social Security card. We do not accept address changes from third parties.
Address/Name Change Form
Application for Active Duty/Veteran Tuition Rate
The active duty military member should submit this form, along with a copy of the orders to Virginia, proof of Virginia residency, and a copy of the military ID to qualify for this in-state tuition benefit.
Student must reapply each semester to receive this benefit. Application deadline is the first day of classes for the term in which the benefit will be received.
Application for Active Duty/Veteran Tuition Rate
Application for Military Spouse/Dependent Tuition Rate
The military spouse and/or military dependent student or recipient of the Fry Scholarship, should submit this form, along with the required documentation, to qualify for the Military Spouse/Dependent in-state tuition benefit.
This benefit and the in-state tuition status shall continue as long as the student is continuously enrolled, regardless of change of duty station or residence of the military service member.
Application for Military Spouse/Dependent Tuition Rate
Application for Virginia In-state Tuition
To qualify for in-state tuition rates, you must apply no later than the first day of classes of the term for which you are requesting in-state rates. This form must be completed and submitted with supporting documentation to the Office of the University Registrar. The application must also accompany all non-degree entry and reactivation/readmission forms if you are seeking in-state tuition rates.
Application for Virginia In-State Tuition
High School Completer
Effective Fall 2020, students that have completed high school in the Commonwealth of Virginia and meet some additional requirements may qualify for in-state tuition rates. Please click the link to the right to review the criteria and complete the form if you believe you qualify.
Application for Virginia In-State Tuition (High School Completer)
Campus Change Request Form
Use this form if you would like to change the campus you are currently assigned to. The most common reasons to change campuses are: lifestyle/fit, military deployment, permanent relocation, desired program change, temporary relocation for summer, and correcting a campus code error.
If you are an on-campus student and you wish to take the rest of your program on-line – request to change your campus code to Online Campus Student in VA, Online Campus Student outside of VA, or Online Campus Student outside of US.
If you are an online student and you wish to take the rest of your program on-campus – request to change your campus code to Norfolk Main Campus Student
If you are an on-campus student and you will relocate outside of Virginia or the U.S. during the summer but plan to return to on-campus in the fall – use the Summer Campus Change Request form to request a temporary campus change for the summer only.
If you intend to study from a location out-of-state or outside the United States – you should request to change your campus code to "online student outside Virginia" or "online student outside USA," as you will be eligible for the tuition rate applicable to students enrolled in technology delivered courses from these locations.
An active MIDAS ID is needed to access the Campus Change Request Form . Students who previously attended ODU should visit the Returning Student page for guidance on how to reactivate their student account prior to requesting a campus change.
Campus Change Request Form
Certificate Program - Notification of Completion
Certificate coordinators should use this form for students who have finished the requirements of the certificate. The departmental chair's signature is also required. The completed form should be submitted to the Registrar's Office or can be scanned and emailed to degreeworks@odu.edu .
Certificate Program - Notification of Completion
Grade Appeal Form
Use this form to initiate the formal grade appeal process. The form and all supporting documentation must be submitted to the Chair of the department in which the instructor was teaching (or to the Dean if the instructor was the department chair). There is a time limit for grade appeals. Students should refer to the University Catalog for complete information on the grade appeal process.
