Information & Communications Technology (Computer Science, M.S.)
ICT (Information and Communications Technology) is the infrastructure and components that enable contemporary business computing. This MS program in Computer Science offers a unique combination of computer science technical knowledge and business IT skills that prepares graduate students for success in the business world of the 21st century. The program emphasizes cutting-edge ICT skills, which can provide a basis for job entry, career development and flexibility amid the rapid changes in Information Technology.
Ocean & Earth Sciences (M.S.)
The masters in Ocean & Earth Science integrated curriculum uses active learning by promoting research and education. It is designed to give graduates the skill sets to prepare them for a range of careers in academia, and the public and private sectors. The graduate program in OEAS draws from the strength of our diverse faculty and their active research programs that span the globe. Graduate students have the opportunity to take part in research projects among a broad suite of field sites from the local waters of the Chesapeake Bay to the polar regions.
Oceanography (Ph.D.)
Old Dominion University offers a Doctor of Philosophy degree in oceanography that follows the traditional path of original research in the field of oceanography. The emphasis areas are biological, chemical, geological, and physical oceanography, and the earth and geological sciences. Interdisciplinary studies are emphasized and an integral part of the student experience. The curricula are designed to prepare graduates for professional practice in their area of interest.
Physics (M.S.)
The Master's program in physics provides an education within experimental and theoretical physics and aims at giving the candidates a broad professional background in physics. The candidate can focus the program towards a variety of topics based on ongoing research activities at the Physics Department.
Physics (Ph.D.)
Our Ph.D. program provides students with opportunities to perform research in some of the most current and dynamic areas of physics. In the first two years, students develop a solid and broad base of physics knowledge through the core curriculum, departmental colloquia, and research training. Armed with the core knowledge, doctoral students join a research group working in an area of particular interest. This research is performed in very close collaboration with one or more faculty whose interests span a wide range of physics fields.
Psychology (M.S.)
The master’s degree program is appropriate for individuals wishing to gain additional research experience prior to enrolling in a psychology doctoral program at Old Dominion University or another university or for those individuals who are seeking the master’s as a terminal degree. The curriculum is designed to provide a strong background in statistics, research methods, and general psychology so that the student will have a wide range of choices for future professional education and development.
