An introduction to principles of management and organizational behavior as they apply to the engineering profession.…
ENMA 301
Introduction to Engineering Management
An introduction to principles of management and organizational behavior as they apply to the engineering profession. Special emphasis on team building, quality leadership and planning, handling personnel issues, and marketing technology. Group exercises, case studies, and extensive writing and speaking assignments. Prerequisites: Junior standing.
ENMA 302
Introduction to cost estimation, accounting and financial metrics. Valuation techniques, time value of money, and cash…
ENMA 302
Engineering Economics
Introduction to cost estimation, accounting and financial metrics. Valuation techniques, time value of money, and cash flow analysis. Economic analysis of engineering alternatives including depreciation effects, income taxes, inflation, engineering management capital budgeting of projects, portfolio and public sector projects. Prerequisite: Junior standing.
ENMA 401
Foundations, principles, methods, and tools for effective design and management of projects in technology-based…
ENMA 401
Project Management
Foundations, principles, methods, and tools for effective design and management of projects in technology-based organizations. Project organization, life cycle, planning, scheduling, implementation, control, and evaluation. Special emphasis on project leadership, problem solving in team-based projects, project failure analysis, and advanced methods. Use of case studies and applications to reinforce course concepts. Students design and plan a project from concept through completion including proposal and post-project analysis. Prerequisites: Junior standing.
Requirements
What are the requirements to apply for Engineering Management at ODU?
Students entering the Minor program in Engineering Management should meet the minimum university admission requirements Undergraduate Admission .
Applicants for the minor in engineering management must be juniors or seniors with a declared major and a minimum GPA of 2.00.
The courses can also be taken by graduate students or other graduates. The minor requires completion of 12 credit hours of course work with a minimum grade point average of 2.00 in all courses specified as a requirement for the minor exclusive of lower-level courses and prerequisite courses.
A minimum of six hours in upper-level courses in the minor requirement must be taken through courses offered by Old Dominion University.
More Program and Degree Requirements
Transfer
At ODU, we understand that as a transfer student you have unique needs that require a wide array of campus resources. The Center for Advising Administration and Academic Partnerships aims to create a transfer inclusive culture that supports the successful...
Transfer Info
Cost
Estimated rates for the 2025-26 academic year. Rates are subject to change. Other fees are assessed for special services and certain academic programs. Anyone that is not a current Virginia resident will be charged non-resident rates. That includes international students.
Active Duty Military Rate
