Facility Rentals & Reservations
Host your next event at the ODU Student Recreation & Well-Being Center!
Let the Student Recreation & Well-Being Center host your next event! Whether you'd like to host tournaments, camps or simply a few games of dodgeball with your organization, we have the space for you!
Reservations are taken on a first-come, first-served basis.
Requests can be submitted through Virtual EMS for ODU student organization and department events.
Facility rentals must meet the mission of the facility by providing events for recreation and wellness purposes.
SRWC spaces (shown below) are available to be reserved by students, staff, and community members.
Student organizations may reserve space at no cost. All other groups will be assessed fees based on affiliation using the chart below.
A Lactation Room is available upon request. If you are in need of this space, please call the front desk at 757-683-4605 for availability.
Questions?
For more information on facility reservations and rentals, please contact us at recwell@odu.edu .
Recreation & Wellness
Racquetball can also be reserved for play up to 1-hour/day.
-
-
N/A
All costs are listed at the hourly rental rate. More spaces are available for reservation for ODU student organizations and departments via the EMS Reservation system .
Rec Well facility rentals may only be for events with recreation and wellness purposes. Additional charges may apply if additional staffing is needed for an event.
Student Organization Space Use Policies
Be sure to review the rules regarding space reservations for student organizations. Learn more
University Event Services
For non-ODU organizations, ODU requires General Liability Insurance and additional university requirements for events with minors present.  The general liability insurance must have the following minimum limits and coverage: must have Old Dominion University and the Commonwealth of Virginia listed as an additional insured on the policy, $1,000,000 per occurrence limit for personal injury to or death of any one person, or more than one person, as a result of any one accident or disaster, and include coverage for property damage, medical payments, sexual abuse, molestation, and harassment.
Groups that involve minors on campus must also have someone from their organization go through the Youth Programs Training to become a Youth Program Director/Administrator, as well as register their event with the university online . These items will need to be completed and approved by the Office of Risk Management prior to your rental beginning and can sometimes take a couple of weeks to get fully approved.
Outdoor Event Support
Outdoor events and all related maintenance support and permit requests are submitted to FMC Learn more
Event Services
Let Recreation & Wellness enhance your next event!
Whether you are hosting your event with us, or elsewhere on campus, the ODU Recreation & Wellness department offers a number of event services to bring an element of health and wellness to your next event or program.
We also host a number of events and programs throughout the year. Check out our Events calendar and join the fun!
Health Promotion Event Services
Partner with Health Promotion on your next event! Health Promotion can provide free condoms and educational presentations to student organization events. Our signature event is the "Be Smart" series which educates students about balancing safety with fun.
Partner with Health Promotion
Request an Event
Are you hosting a department event and would like to promote fitness, health, and wellness for your attendees? You can request a private presentation, demonstration, or even group exercise class!
