A valid membership is required to gain access to our facilities and services.
Proper check in at the Membership Services desk is required prior to accessing the facilities.
Only individuals ages 18 and older are permitted to use the facility, unless participating in a designated program.
Recreation & Wellness staff are to be treated with respect and instructions provided by staff are to be followed.
Consumption or distribution of alcohol, tobacco, drugs or illegal substances is prohibited.
Proper athletic, non-marking, rubber-soled shoes are to be worn at all times.
Proper workout attire is required at all times (shirt, athletic shoes, athletic shorts, no jeans, zippers or attire that can damage equipment).
Hand-to-hand combat training/sparring where contact is being made to the head/chest/body of another person is not permitted, unless the training is pre-approved as through a proper facility reservation for an approved student organization.
Rollerblades, skateboards, bicycles and hover boards are only permitted in the Outdoor Adventure Center.
Profanity, fighting, outbursts, disrespect or disturbances will not be tolerated.
Hydrating beverages in sealable, shatter-proof containers are permitted; other food and drinks are prohibited.
Equipment (basketballs, volleyballs, soccer balls, etc.) may be checked out by members from the Equipment Desk. Equipment must be returned by closing on the same day of check out. Charges may apply for any unreturned, lost and/or damaged equipment.
Lockers are available for personal items. Do not leave backpacks or personal belongings unattended.
Recreation & Wellness is not responsible for personal belongings brought into the facility.
Animals are prohibited inside the facility unless they are a registered service animal performing trained tasks.
Recreation & Wellness reserves the right to remove and/or suspend access to any participants who do not comply with these rules or directions from a Recreation & Wellness staff member.
Photo and video recording of others without their consent is prohibited.
Patrons who appear to be afflicted with cuts, communicable diseases, colds, fevers, or infections are prohibited from utilizing facilities.
Weapons are prohibited.
Fitness Floor
Powdered chalk is not permitted on the Fitness Floor. Liquid chalk is permitted.
Equipment must be used as intended by the manufacturer. Do not move or relocate equipment without Recreation & Wellness staff approval.
Users may not drop weights or dumbbells as this damages equipment, with the exception of bumper plates.
Headphones must be worn at all times while listening to portable music devices. Stereos are not permitted.
Personal Training must be performed by Recreation & Wellness staff only.
All machines must be wiped down and weights re-racked after use.
Proper workout attire is required at all times including shirt, bottoms, and non-marking, rubber-soled shoes.
Hydrating beverages in sealable, shatter-proof containers are permitted; other food and drink is prohibited.
ODU Recreation & Wellness is not responsible for lost or stolen belongings. Lockers are available to secure belongings.
Profanity, fighting, outbursts, disrespect, and disturbances will not be tolerated.
Barbells are not permitted to be placed in corners, instead please use a landmine station located on the second floor.
Indoor Track
Travel Left / Clockwise on Monday, Wednesday, Friday and Sunday.
Travel Right / Counter-Clockwise on Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday.
Fitness equipment is not permitted in the track area.
Informal Recreation (Pickup Games)
Groups that request a specified activity during informal recreation must notify the Facility Manager. Individuals or groups playing other activities in these space will be given five minutes to finish their activity. The Facility Manager will then stop play and set up the proper equipment for the selected informal activity.
Individuals may not use informal recreation time for organized activities. Groups interested in reserving an area for activity should fill out the Indoor Student Recreation & Well-Being Center Request Form using Virtual EMS .
Racquetball Courts
Non-marking athletic shoes are required.
Personal belongings, gym bags, backpacks, etc., can be placed on the exterior of the court between the fins or in storage lockers.
Reservations may be made for racquetball, badminton and table tennis for up to one hour per day. Reservations may be made up to 24 hours in advance by calling the equipment desk at 757-683-4288.
All Players must check in with the equipment desk to have their reserved court setup accordingly.
Reserved court time will be forfeited after 10 minutes.
The badminton nets, Wallyball nets and table tennis tables must be set-up and taken down by SRWC staff only.
Racquetball wrist straps and protective eyewear are strongly recommended.
Activity Courts
Equipment (basketballs, volleyballs, soccer balls, etc.) may be checked out by members from the equipment desk. Equipment must be returned by closing on the same day of check out. Charges may apply for any unreturned, lost and/or damaged equipment.
Open recreation activities are first-come, first serve with a 1-hour time limit. Please see facility schedules for available times.
No personal stereos are permitted.
Keep the floor clear. All personal belongings must be kept in cubbies or lockers.
Do not move any equipment set-up on courts. Ask the building staff for assistance with the set-up or break down of equipment.
Be a good sport! Good sportsmanship should be demonstrated in all activities.
Profanity, fighting, outbursts, disrespect, and disturbances will not be tolerated.
Consumption, distribution, or being under the influence of alcohol, tobacco, drugs or illegal substances is prohibited.
Proper workout attire is required at all times including shirt, bottoms, and non-marking, rubber-soled shoes.
Hydrating beverages in sealable, shatter-proof containers are permitted; other food and drink is prohibited.
ODU Recreation & Wellness is not responsible for lost or stolen belongings.
Weapons are prohibited.
Studios
Participants must return and clean any equipment, weights, or mats.
Use of the facility stereo is prohibited. Participants are welcome to bring their own stereo. Personal music in the studio space during informal recreation is first-come, first-serve. Music must not contain profanity.
Storage areas are off-limits during informal recreation.
Dropping weights is prohibited.
Maximum capacity is 36 persons.
Studios A and C may be used for informal recreation when it is not reserved. Studio B and the Cycle Studio are reservation only. Informal recreation is not permitted.
Organized activities must have an approved reservation through ODU Recreation & Wellness.
Participants must not remove equipment from the studios.
Proper athletic, non-marking, rubber-soled shoes are to be worn at all times.
Staff reserve the right to stop any activities deemed unsafe.
Day Lockers
Day use lockers, including phone-charging lockers, are available throughout the facility at no cost to you. These lockers are intended to be used during your visit to the gym. Daily lockers may not be used to store items overnight.
You must provide your own lock for the day use lockers in the locker rooms.
The day use lockers next to the Fitness Floor, on the track, beside the MAC Court and in the University Fitness Center utilize resettable combination lockers. The combination is unique to each user as each time the lock is opened a new combination will need to be set. Instructions for how to use these lockers are posted at each location. If you experience issues with these locks, please see a Recreation & Wellness staff member for assistance.
Day use lockers are cleaned out nightly, and any personal lock left on a day use locker in the locker rooms at closing will be cut off by Recreation & Wellness staff. Any items remaining in a day use locker are placed in the equipment desk Lost & Found for 30 days. Items not claimed after the 30 day period will be discarded.
Rental Lockers & Locker Rooms
Lockers are available for rent on a semester and annual basis. Locker rentals may be purchased at the front desk.
Only locks provided by ODU may be used on rental lockers.
Recreation & Wellness is not responsible for lost or stolen belongings.
Photos and video recording are prohibited in the locker rooms.
Please lock all valuables in an assigned locker, check the lock security before leaving the locker room and do not give the combination of your locker to anyone.
Children over the age of five are required to use the locker room corresponding with their gender. A family-friendly, gender neutral restroom with a shower is also available for use. If you would like to enter the pool through the OAP hallway instead of the locker room, please ask a staff member to escort you.
Headphones must be worn while listening to personal devices. Stereos are not permitted.
Equipment Rentals
Sport and fitness equipment may be checked out by members from the equipment desk.
Equipment must be returned by closing on the same day of check out.
Fees may be charged for any unreturned, lost or damaged equipment.
Members are responsible for returning the same item number that was checked out in their name.
Towels may be rented for a fee and can be purchased at the front desk or online.
Outdoor Field
ODU students and SRWC members may use the field for informal recreation when it is not reserved. Staff reserve the right to request identification.
Organized activities must have an approved reservation through ODU Recreation & Wellness.
Personal training must be performed by Recreation & Wellness staff only.
Headphones must be worn while listening to personal devices. Stereos are not permitted.
Proper athletic clothing is required, including shirt and shoes. Cleats worn on the field must not exceed ½" and must not be metal.
ODU Recreation & Wellness is not responsible for lost or stolen belongings. Lockers are available to secure belongings.
ODU Recreation & Wellness does not assume liability for injuries resulting from any activity or event. Patrons shall use the field at their own risk.
Staff reserve the right to stop any activities deemed unsafe.
Animals are prohibited on the field unless they are a registered service animal performing trained tasks.
Scooters, bicycles, rollerblades, skateboards, and other similar equipment are prohibited.
Consumption, distribution, or being under the influence of alcohol, tobacco, drugs or illegal substances is prohibited.
Profanity, fighting, outbursts, disrespect, and disturbances will not be tolerated.
Recreation & Wellness reserves the right to remove and/or suspend access to any participants who do not comply with these rules or directions from staff.
Indoor Pool
A Lifeguard must be on duty before swimmers may enter the water.
All swimmers must shower before entering pool.
Clean and proper swimming attire is required. Cutoff shorts are not permitted.
For your safety, only U.S. Coast Guard approved flotation devices are allowed. All non-swimmers must wear an approved flotation device.
People who appear to be afflicted with cuts, skin diseases, communicable diseases, colds, fevers, or infections are prohibited from utilizing facilities.
Spit and other bodily fluids are not permitted in the pool.
Bottles, glass and other hazardous objects are prohibited.
All children 15 years and younger must have adult supervision.
Throwing objects that may endanger the safety of others is prohibited.
Diving is only permitted into the deep area of the pool from the pool deck. Use of the diving boards is prohibited during recreational swim times.
Running, hanging on lane lines, rough play, and long-distance underwater swimming is prohibited.
Submerging for long periods of time without proper breathing apparatus is prohibited.
Consumption, distribution, and being under the influence of alcohol, tobacco, drugs or illegal substances is prohibited.
Animals are prohibited in the pool area unless they are a registered service animal performing trained tasks.
Patrons must exit the pool during any severe or dangerous weather conditions.
Food & drink are not permitted on the pool deck
Recreation & Wellness reserves the right to remove and/or suspend access to any participants who do not comply with these rules or directions from staff.
Monarch Esports Arena
ODU student status is required to access the Monarch Esports Arena.
The provided PC, keyboard, mouse, and software system must be used.
Check-in for a two hour time block is required.
Arena use is limited to two hours per student, per day. Patrons must leave at the end of the two hour session.
Food is not permitted.
Drinks must be in a solid container and have a sealable top.
Only Varsity and JV players are permitted to use the PCs on the stage.
Use of language meant to disparage, humiliate, or disrespect someone is prohibited.
Profanity, fighting, outbursts, or disturbances are not tolerated.
Recreation & Wellness reserves the right to remove and/or suspend access to any participants who do not comply with these rules or directions from staff (in person or online).
