2025 Environmental Career Fair: Experts Help Monarchs Make New Discoveries
2025 Environmental Career Fair: Experts Help Monarchs Make New Discoveries
October 14, 2025 By Tiffany Whitfield
share
Old Dominion University College of Sciences held the fourth annual Environmental Career Fair on Tuesday, October 7. This uniquely designed fair brought together ODU undergraduate students majoring in Biological Sciences, Chemistry and Ocean & Earth Sciences along with industry professionals. The purpose was for Monarchs to make meaningful connections with seasoned career environmental professionals.
There were more than 15 local and regional companies and organizations who carved out time to have in-depth conversations with Monarchs in this targeted career fair. Representatives from the companies talked to students about internships and jobs and gave professional advice.
More than 90 Monarchs attended the fair held in the North Cafeteria in the Webb Center from 12:00 p.m. to 2:00 p.m.
College of Sciences Associate Dean Joshua Wallach said: “It was great to see students having meaningful conversations with individuals from a variety of industries ranging from local non-profits to a Fortune 500 company. Students not only learned about professional opportunities but also received guidance on their academic and career paths from these experts.  We are really appreciative of the time these professionals gave to our students helping them see the connections between what they are studying in the classroom and the work they may be doing after graduation.”
The influx of students who moved from table to table expressing their enthusiasm to be able to converse with industry professionals was met with smiles and open dialgoues.
Representatives from the various organizations all commented on being at ODU to share information and talk to Monarchs.
Community Engagement Coordinator and Educator for Virginia Aquarium and Marine Science Center Max Wright said: “Environmental Career Day at ODU was absolutely awesome! It was wonderful getting to share resources with so many passionate students and connect with people from all years and backgrounds. I loved encouraging everyone to explore our internships, volunteer opportunities, and Batten Fellowships with such diverse folks because, as I always say, environmentalism needs everyone. No matter your major or career path, bringing environmental values into whatever you do is essential to protecting our planet for generations to come.”
ODU’s Institute of Coastal Adaptation and Resilience, Program and Finance Manager Vincent Hodges, expressed the following: “I enjoyed the opportunity to interact and meaningfully engage with students as they consider their options for future employment.  What I hoped to impart to these students is that they are future leaders no matter what Environmental profession they choose. I take it upon myself to encourage Students to move forward with conviction and bravery. This is what I got from the Environmental Career Fair and hope ICAR will be invited back next year.”
Another environmental professional enjoyed meeting Monarchs at the fair. According to Project Environmental Scientist at Wetland Studies and Solutions Nikolai Karlov: “I thought the career fair was successful and very engaging this year. All the students were very curious, asked thoughtful questions on the nature of environmental consulting and seemed genuinely interested in learning more about the profession as many had not previously considered it as a career opportunity. I was happy to provide some professional guidance and share potential pathways to entering this field of work.”
The full list of organizations that were present at the Environmental Career Fair were:
City of Virginia Beach
Hampton Roads Sanitation District (HRSD)
Institute for Coastal Adaptation and Resilience (ICAR)
Lynnhaven River NOW
