James Owens, Computer Science Graduate Student Uses Research As a Launch Pad In STEM
James Owens, Computer Science Graduate Student Uses Research as a Launch Pad in STEM
July 11, 2025 By Tiffany Whitfield and Briana Goodall
share
Computer Science graduate student James Owens uses the software side of computing to unleash his potential in STEM at Old Dominion University. Owens is taking advantage of research opportunities both on-campus and with nationally recognized organizations to help him further pursue his ambitions. The connections he’s making are helping him get closer to double crown Monarch status, earning both a B.S. and M.S. degree from ODU. Owens credits research opportunities and faculty mentorship as his recipe to success at ODU.
Owens earned his Bachelor of Science degrees as a double major in Computer Science and Game Design in 2024. In December of 2025, he will receive his Master of Science degree in Computer Science as part of the department’s Linked Accelerated program that allows Monarchs to earn a B.S. and M.S. in five years. Concurrently this fall, he will begin work toward a Ph.D. in computer science at ODU.
At present, Owens conducts research under the guidance of Associate Professor Sampath Jayarathna, Ph.D., focusing on data science and eye-tracking studies. His work is focused on determining how cognitively demanding a person finds a task based on their eye gaze patterns and pupil size changes, contributing to a broader understanding of cognitive functions.
According to Owens, he believes eye tracking can be used to improve software and physical interfaces that we regularly use and activities that we regularly perform. “Many products go through user testing to optimize them prior to being released, and activities such as driving and learning are regularly studied to improve their safety and effectiveness respectively,” said Owens. “The insights into a product-user’s thought process or a driver’s cognitive engagement gained from eye tracking data can enhance these studies resulting in intuitive products, safer activities, and better learning outcomes among other improvements.”
Due to his connection to Professor Jayarathna, Owens volunteered during the spring of 2025 with his mentor at NASA Langley Research Center. “Dr. Jayarathna who is on sabbatical at NASA Langley beginning in March to August 2025 is doing work in the Autonomous Integrated Systems Branch,” said Owens. “This volunteer opportunity made me more curious about drone and aviation software.” Because of Owens’s research interests and motivation from his mentor, he applied to do an internship at NASA Langley for the summer of 2025 and was accepted to intern in the Safety-Critical Avionics System Branch.
At NASA, Owens is working on a team to develop some of the software needed for an unmanned drone and air traffic simulation experiment. “The work from the internship will be used to validate different algorithms and explore scenarios for air traffic interactions,” said Owens. “The scientists at NASA Safety-Critical Avionics Systems Branch develop and validate tools and methodologies designed to improve safety and reliability in aerospace vehicles and air traffic.”
According to Jayarathna, “James embodies the rare combination of technical excellence, unwavering curiosity, and deep compassion. From his early involvement in cutting-edge eye tracking research to co-founding a startup that translates science into real-world solutions, James consistently pushes the boundaries of innovation. This summer, he is interning at NASA Langley, working on advanced autonomous systems, which just shows how far his talent and hard work have taken him. I’m incredibly proud of him, as his advisor from the time he first stepped into my lab as a freshman to now, starting his Ph.D. in Fall 2025, it’s been a true privilege to watch him grow into a remarkable researcher.”
Originally from Beckley, West Virginia, Owens had a passion for game design and computer science. “I wanted to get a game design degree, and there weren’t any offered in West Virginia besides one school the same distance away (as ODU), and I don’t remember getting any scholarships from that school, but I had a substantial scholarship to go to ODU,” said Owens. “I took the opportunity to go here to ODU in the fall of 2020.” During his journey, he realized that his true passion extended beyond game design, and his interests in research began to deepen.
As an undergraduate, Owens seized numerous opportunities that shaped his academic and professional path. In his junior year, he joined U-RISE, a program designed to provide financial support, research training, and professional development through workshops and conferences. “I got recommended to apply to U-RISE by Dr. Jayarathna who I was preparing to work for as an undergraduate research assistant,” said Owens.
U-RISE allowed Owens to gain valuable skills and offer experiences that are still opening doors to new pathways for him. “I got the opportunity to do a lot of scientific presentations such as the Undergraduate Research Symposium for three years at ODU,” said Owens. He did an Undergraduate Research Fellowship in summer 2022 and 2023 at Virginia Commonwealth University’s Pauley Heart Center. “I presented my work from VCU at the Annual Biomedical Research Conference for Minoritized Scientists (ABRCMS),” said Owens. “Also, I was in the 2024 EVMS Summer Scholars program where I presented my research conducted over that summer twice at a research day for the program and a research event for EVMS.”
Chemistry Professor and Co-Principal Investigator of U-RISE, Alvin Holder, Ph.D., expressed how proud he is of Owens, “James, a future professor in the making. He was trained by the great mentor, Dr. Jayarathna, from the time he was a freshman while as a Pre-MARC trainee. I have witnessed his quality presentations at the ODU Undergraduate Symposium and at ABRCMS. He is always humble, calm, cool like a cucumber and very respectful as a team player. He has a great future ahead of him.”
When asked about ODU, Owens described it as "forever evolving." He admires the university’s commitment to progress, particularly in establishing and enhancing programs that benefit students. “I think since being here and seeing just the number of majors that there are and also the number of different professors in different areas, it’s a lot of different opportunities.”
His advice to new and current Monarchs is to, “explore all the opportunities available to them and don’t just go to class. Explore research and connect with professors and students in other events in the department.”
Looking ahead, Owens aspires to continue his cognitive research derived from eye tracking research while pursuing a Ph.D. in computer science at ODU. While Owens is still undecided about his long-term goals, he knows he would like to be a researcher and software developer likely studying human computer interaction from a data science approach and using software simulations in some capacity.
