Faculty and Staff Giving
Thank you to the ODU faculty/staff for your continued support!
Whether you are a member of our outstanding faculty or our dedicated staff, your hard work contributes to Old Dominion University's success.
You know better than anyone the exceptional education students receive here at ODU. You already demonstrate your commitment to the University on a daily basis.
Join with your fellow colleagues in making a charitable gift to Old Dominion University during the Faculty & Staff Campaign. It is our chance to make a difference in our very own community.
You can give an unrestricted gift or choose to direct your gift to a specific department, college, scholarship fund or athletic team - wherever you want to have the most impact. Your generous support helps support programs that directly impact our students, faculty and staff and the community around us.
Every gift, every amount counts!
Lead. Give. Inspire. Today!
We moved our payroll deduction form online. Once the first one is entered online, you can update/change it or cancel it any time at your convenience.
Please go to https://itsapps.odu.edu/forms/payrolldeduction/ to initiate a new payroll deduction. You will need to log in with your MIDAS credentials.
Student Giving - Senior Class Challenge
A scholarship for students by students.
The ODU Student Concordia Scholarship is all about students helping students. “Concordia” which means unity in Latin is what is it is all about. This award will be completely funded by donations from the student body and will be awarded to a Monarch student each semester. These donations are done through the the Senior Class Challenge.
The Senior Class Challenge is a fundraising challenge open to the seniors of the current graduating class which gives you the opportunity to show your unwavering Monarch Pride! Leave your legacy.
HELP YOUR FELLOW MONARCHS BY GIVING $20.XX IN HONOR OF YOUR GRADUATION YEAR:
As a thank you, each student donor will receive an ODU philanthropy honor cord to wear at commencement as a show of their commitment and support.
Crowdfunding  at  ODU -  Give2ODU
When Monarchs come together, great things are accomplished.
Old Dominion University’s crowdfunding platform provides an easy and effective way to raise funds for a variety of campus projects. Crowdfunding is the practice of funding a project or initiative by raising many small donations of money from a large number of people through an online campaign.
Crowdfunding can be used to fundraiser for a wide variety of projects, initiated by faculty, staff, and students. You can use your network via social media, email or text to spread the word of your favorite cause and further Old Dominion University’s mission.
Annual Fund Call Center
ANNUAL FUND CALL CENTER HIGHLIGHTS
The Old Dominion University Annual Fund Center employs students to reach out to thousands of alumni, parents, and friends every year. Our student fundraisers build relationships, share the latest happenings on campus, update contact information, answer questions and offer the opportunity to give back to the university. They are passionate about ODU and are eager to talk to you.
Our student fundraisers love to hear stories about your experiences here at ODU while sharing their own. Through meaningful conversations, the Annual Fund Center helps to secure financial contributions every year in support of scholarships, programs, research, athletics, and more.
The Annual Fund Center’s hours of operation are Monday through Thursday from 4-8 PM and Sunday from 1-5 PM.
When you see 757-683-4161 on your caller ID, pick up the phone for your chance to connect with a fellow Monarch. Thank you for your support and we look forward to speaking with you!
Ready to make your gift to ODU today?
