$215 per participant
Group Swim Lessons
Group swim lessons are 4 weeks long and meet either Monday/Wednesday or Tuesday/Thursday. Class start times are 5:15 p.m., 6:15 p.m., or 7:15 p.m.
Spring Session 1: February 2-26
Registration Period: January 1-29
Spring Session 2: March 23-April 23
Registration Period: January 1-March 20
Summer Session 1: May 18-June 11
Registration Period: April 15-May 15
Register Now
Adult Group Lessons
Adults (12+) can take one of our American Red Cross swimming courses at either the beginner or intermediate level. Participants in this Learn-to-Swim program will learn how to float, submerge completely, and propel themselves through the water on both front and back using the front and back crawl. This program is designed to allow swimmers to progress at their own pace, mastering one set of skills before moving on to the next.
ODU Student $70 | SRWC Member $90 | Non-Member $110
Price covers eight 45-minute group lessons (twice a week for four weeks)
Adult Beginner
Adult beginner swim lessons are for individuals 12 years and older who are looking to learn the basics for swimming. Participants in this Learn-to-Swim program will learn how to float, submerge completely, and propel themselves through the water on both front and back using the front and back crawl. This program is designed to allow swimmers to progress at their own pace, mastering one set of skills before moving on to the next.
Adult Intermediate
This American Red Cross course is for individuals 12 years and older who are comfortable with the basic concepts of swimming and looking to enhance their swimming skills.
Adult Advanced
This American Red Cross course is for individuals 12 years and older who are ready to work on stroke technique.
Preschool Group Lessons
Preschool lessons (3-5 years old) are designed to teach water adjustment, basic swimming and safety skills in a fun, small group setting. The class will help children get familiar with an aquatic environment and develop basic aquatic skills such as blowing bubbles, breath holding, floating, simultaneous arm and leg motions, as well as exits into water, retrieving objects underwater, and basic water safety skills. Children must be 3 on the first day of class, toilet trained, able to communicate their needs and be willing to separate from their guardian.
ODU Student $70 | SRWC Member $90 | Non-Member $110
Price covers eight 30-minute group lessons (twice a week for four weeks)
Preschool Level 1: Introduction
This level introduces basic aquatic skill, which children continue to build on as they progress through Levels 2 Preschool Aquatics and then on to Youth Lessons. Children start developing positive attitudes and safe practices around the water. Most skills are performed with assistance from the instructor.
Preschool Level 2: Fundamentals
This level promotes further development of aquatic skills. Children begin to perform skills at a more advanced level by increasing repetitions, distances, times and levels of refinement. Skills are performed increasingly more independently.
Preschool Level 3: Stroke Development
Swimmers will work on: gliding, freestyle with side breathing, backstroke, breast stroke and dolphin kicks, retrieving objects in deeper water, treading water, jumping into deep water and compact dives.
Youth Group Lessons
Youth lessons (6-12 years old) are designed to allow students to progress through the levels at their own pace, mastering the skills in one level before advancing to the next. Participants will learn elementary aquatic skills such as floating, gliding, submerging, rotary breathing, front crawl, back crawl, as well as simultaneous arm and leg motion to propel themselves through the water. This program provides an increased emphasis in the areas of drowning prevention and water safety through an inclusive approach to swimming.
ODU Student $70 | SRWC Member $90 | Non-Member $110
Price covers eight 45-minute group lessons (twice a week for four weeks)
Youth Level 1: Beginner
This level introduces basic aquatics skills and will orient swimmers to aquatic environment through development of a positive attitude and safe practices near the water. This level is for the non-swimmer who does not submerge head or body. Swimmers will learn to fully submerge, front floats, back floats and forward momentum in the water. There are no prerequisite swim skills required, and it is recommended that your child be able to learn comfortably without a parent/guardian.
Youth Level 2: Intermediate
This level introduces more independent swimming skills. Your child must be able to float without assistance for at least 10 seconds and perform the basic motions of a freestyle (front crawl) and/or backstroke (back crawl) approximately five body lengths without assistance.
Youth Level 3: Advanced
This level features independent ability to swim freestyle and backstroke without aid for at least 15 yards. Your child must be comfortable swimming in the deep end for this level. Stroke development, stroke mastery and endurance building will be the primary focus.
Youth Level 4: Advanced Stroke Development
Kids will gain confidence during swim lessons, improve their stroke and gain additional aquatic skills.
Adaptive Swim Program
ODU's Adaptive Swim Program pairs qualified swim instructors with children aged 4 to 12 who experience neurodevelopmental differences. Instructors will teach basic water safety and swimming skills at the ODU Student Recreation and Well-Being Center.
Benefits of Adaptive Swim:
One-on-one support from a trained swim aide
A 30-minute session in a supportive pool environment
No cost to families
Small group sizes for individual attention
Adapted activities based on American Red Cross curriculum
Adaptive Swim Lesson Dates:
