Close
Student Health Services
You may locate us in the new Student Recreation and Well-Being Center on the first floor in Suite 1402.
Monarch Wellness Portal
Student Health Services
Student Health Services is an accredited outpatient clinic staffed with high-quality professionals dedicated to providing exceptional care to current ODU students.
Breadcrumb
Announcements/Events
Student Health Forms Due by August 1st (Fall Semester), January 4th (Spring Semester).
All newly admitted full time students' health forms are due August 1st for fall semester registration. All newly admitted, spring semester, full time students' health forms are due January 4th.
Parking for Student Health Service Patients
Parking for Student Health Services Patients
Parking space #4905 is available adjacent to Owens Hall for student patients who may have difficulty accessing Student Health due to physical limitations or illness. Students who use this parking space must provide their vehicle information and license number to the Student Health Center receptionist on arrival and vacate the parking space on leaving the Student Health Center.
From Downtown Norfolk, turn left onto 49th Street. From the Naval Base, turn right onto 49th Street. Continue down 49th Street and turn left into the last parking lot (Lot 49) before Powhatan Avenue. You will see blue dumpsters in the lot. The reserved space for Student Health Services (SHS) will be on the right. Park in that space. We are located on the 1st floor of the Student Recreation and Well-Being Center, Suite 1402. It’s easier to enter through the front of the building. See the map for the office location in proximity to your parking. If getting to our office from the parking lot seems confusing, feel free to call the office at 757-683-3132 (press 3) and we’ll be happy to meet you at the parking space to escort you to our Suite.
Failure to follow time restrictions on parking (for the duration of the appointment only) will result in the vehicle being towed at the student's expense.
ODU Hosts Student Recreation & Well-Being Center Open House
Monday - Thursday 8:00 a.m. to 7:00p.m.
Friday 8:00a.m. to 5:00p.m.
COVID-19 is the disease caused by SARS CoV-2. For more information visit the CDC website.
How is COVID-19 spread?
COVID-19 is spread from someone who is infected breathes out droplets and very small particles contain the virus. The droplets and particles are breathed in by other people and land in the eyes, noses, or mouth. The particles can also contaminate touch surfaces
For more information visit CDC website.
How can I obtain a test for COVID-19?
ODU Student Health Services offer rapid COVID-19 testing. To make an appointment visit the Monarch Wellness Portal or Virginia Department of Health to schedule.
Precautions When Sick With Respiratory Illnesses?
If you’re sick with a respiratory virus, such as COVID-19, influenza (flu), respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), or a cold, there are steps you can take to protect yourself and others. Symptoms or a respiratory virus can include fever, chills, fatigue (tiredness), cough, runny nose, and headache, among others.
Stay Home if You're Sick
Stay home and away from others when sick with symptoms of a respiratory virus.
You can go back to your normal activities when, for at least 24 hours, both of these are true:
Your symptoms are getting better overall, AND
You have not had a fever (and are not using fever-reducing medication).
Once you resume normal activities, take added precautions for the next five days .
If you start to feel worse or get a fever after you have gone back to normal activities, stay home and away from others again and follow the steps above.
If at any point your symptoms worsen, or you have an emergency warning sign (like trouble breathing or chest pain), seek medical care immediately.
If you tested positive and don’t have symptoms
You do not need to stay home but might still be contagious and able to spread the virus.
Take added precautions for the next five days .
Take Added Precautions for Five Days
Taking the steps below for the next five days can help reduce the spread of respiratory disease to others. You might still be able to spread the virus that made you sick, even if you are feeling better.
Wear a well fitting mask around others, especially those at high risk for severe illness.
Keep distance from others.
Clean and disinfect all frequently touched or high-touch surfaces daily.
Cover coughs and sneezes and wash hands often.
Do I have to report test results to ODU?
No, you are no longer required to complete a report if you test positive or believe you have been a close contact of someone who has tested positive.
How can I obtain COVID-19 vaccine or booster?
To obtain a COVID-19 vaccine or booster visit the Virginia Department of Health .
Influenza (Flu)
Seasonal influenza is commonly referred to as “the flu.” It is a contagious respiratory illness caused by influenza viruses. Flu can cause mild to severe illness, and at times can lead to death. Flu viruses can be detected year-round in the United States, but they are most common during the fall and winter.
More information on the flu is available:
