Irwin B. Levinstein Scholarship
Irwin B. Levinstein Scholarship
The Department of Computer Science selects one graduate student each year to receive the Dr. Irwin B. Levinstein Scholarship. This scholarship is restricted to a Computer Science graduate student who is making satisfactory progress and who is, in order of priority, female, or an international student from Africa, South America or Southeast Asia (Thailand, Cambodia, Laos or Vietnam), or a graduate of the Norfolk Public School system. An award is $5,000 for one year.
The award does not include a tuition waiver, but it can be combined with a GRA or GTA position that includes a tuition waiver. Selection is based on a comprehensive review of the student’s academic record, faculty recommendations, and an essay that highlights the student’s achievements in academic activities such as peer-reviewed publications, software development, research projects, departmental or university service, presentations, or other innovative activities. A student is limited to receive maximum once of either the Hussein Abdel-Wahab Memorial Graduate Fellowship or Irwin B. Levinstein Scholarship. The application packet is to be submitted to the Graduate Program Director at csgpd@odu.edu .
Application Submission Requirements
The deadline for submission is November 15 of each year, unless otherwise announced.
Incoming and first-year graduate students: The selection committee will review the student's graduate admissions application, including academic record (transcripts), relevant test scores, recommendations, and personal essay. In addition, the student must submit an email to csgpd@odu.edu requesting to be considered for the award. If the personal essay was not included in the graduate application, it must be included in the application for the award. For incoming PhD students, the student's new PhD advisor must provide a recommendation. For first-year graduate students, a recommendation letter from the student’s research advisor or a faculty member from ODU Computer Science is required.
Current ODU CS graduate students: The selection committee will review the student's academic record, recommendations, and an essay. The student must submit their unofficial transcript from ODU (from LeoOnline) and an essay describing their progress and accomplishments in the graduate program and their plan for the upcoming academic year. The student must also request at least one recommendation from an ODU CS faculty member.
Computer Science
