This course provides the student with a working knowledge of various types of technical communication, including the…
ENGL 334W
Technical Writing
This course provides the student with a working knowledge of various types of technical communication, including the writing of proposals, instructions, and reports for both specialist and nonspecialist audiences. This is a writing intensive course. Prerequisites: A grade of C or better in ENGL 110C and ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C.
ENGL 465W
An investigation of how African American literature has innovated, influenced, and been influenced by literary…
ENGL 465W
African American Literature
An investigation of how African American literature has innovated, influenced, and been influenced by literary movements, historical events, social transitions, and political upheavals. This is a writing intensive course. Prerequisites: One 300-level course in English or permission of instructor and a grade of C or better in one of the following: ENGL 211C, ENGL 221C, or ENGL 231C.
ENGL 382
This course focuses on writing for television news and producing online news reports. Students strengthen their…
ENGL 382
Reporting News for Television and Digital Media
This course focuses on writing for television news and producing online news reports. Students strengthen their journalistic skills and learn the importance of writing clearly for a viewing audience while working under newsroom deadlines. By the end of the course, students should feel confident in producing accurate, detailed reports for both television news and online news sites. Prerequisites: A grade of C or better in ENGL 110C and ENGL 211C.
Requirements
What are the requirements to apply for English at ODU?
Students entering the Minor program in English should meet the minimum university admission requirements Undergraduate Admission .
More Program and Degree Requirements
Transfer
At ODU, we understand that as a transfer student you have unique needs that require a wide array of campus resources. The Center for Advising Administration and Academic Partnerships aims to create a transfer inclusive culture that supports the successful...
Transfer Info
Cost
Estimated rates for the 2025-26 academic year. Rates are subject to change. Other fees are assessed for special services and certain academic programs. Anyone that is not a current Virginia resident will be charged non-resident rates. That includes international students.
Active Duty Military Rate
