youtube
CCLD Equitable Access to Opportunity Statement
Old Dominion University’s Center for Career and Leadership Development (CCLD) works hard to ensure equitable access to employment opportunities and experiential learning for all students from the employers with whom we work with for campus recruiting. We request that employers post these opportunities on Handshake to ensure all ODU students and alumni have access. The Center for Career and Leadership Development does not share contact information for individual students with recruiting organizations. As a best practice, we advise that ODU faculty and staff not share contact information for individual students or recommend specific students for employment opportunities. Alternatively, we encourage faculty and staff to provide recommendations or serve as references for students. CCLD is happy to work with any organization desiring to recruit ODU students to ensure they have the broadest access to the diverse talent of the Monarch Nation.
ODU Career Fairs
CCLD sponsors various career fairs through the academic year. Your active participation in our career fairs gives you an opportunity to market to and talk to students and alumni about your organization. Check out Handshake for information on upcoming career fairs.
Participate in Career Fairs
Attend the ODU Career Summit
This conference connects recruiters with ODU faculty and staff, featuring sessions on building talent pipelines and supporting students in their career goals.
Learn more about the summit
Employer Advisory Board
A group of industry professionals dedicated to strengthening the connection between employers and University. Learn more about how you can help enhance employer engagement, improve career services, and align student talent with workforce needs.
Learn More
Virginia Top
The Virginia Talent + Opportunity Partnership (Virginia TOP) connects Virginia businesses that have work-based learning opportunities to Virginia students looking for them, with Virginia’s higher ed institutions serving as the main catalyst. Please explore the V-TOP website to find resources including contact information for Virginia’s public and private post-secondary career professionals, our Employer Readiness Toolkit, and more.
