CS 431 - Web Server Design
CS 432 - Web Sciences
CS 441 - App Development for Smart Devices
Miscellaneous
CS 478 - Computational Geometry, Methods and Applications
CS 488 - Principles of Compiler Construction
**One of CS450 or CS418 are required. The other may be used as an elective.
CS 367/8 Computer Science Internship
Interested students should contact Summer Steelman, Assistant Director/Liaison College of Sciences, at 757-683-3282 or ssteelma@odu.edu . She will assist you in getting set up for one of these classes. These courses are organized by the Center for Career & Leadership Development .
The following are responsible for grading your work report:
Summer Steelman: Assistant Director/Liaison for the College of Sciences at Career Development Services
Janet Brunelle: Chief Departmental Advisor/Professor in charge of your Intern/Co-op class
Science & Technical
Solving society's problems through innovation relies upon a strong foundation of mathematical and scientific reasoning. Partnered with proficient programming knowledge and skills, advanced knowledge of theory, architecture, algorithms, and software engineering, the alumni of our undergraduate program will be prepared for a future in the professional workforce, research and entrepreneurship.
The Bachelor of Science in Computer Science degree program requires the completion of three (3) science courses; a year of Nature of Science and one Technical Elective. Traditionally, engineering programs required a full-year of calculus-based physics and a full-year of chemistry. Computer Science students may select to prepare themselves for a future of scientific reasoning with an understanding of any ODU supported scientific foundational courses.
Nature of Science is a component of the lower division general education requirements for a Bachelor of Science degree. Computer Science majors may select from the first year courses required in the disciplines offered in the College of Sciences at ODU: Biology, Chemistry, Physics, and Oceanography. The options available are restricted to the courses taken for these majors, and must include two sequential semesters of study which are laboratory-based.
The third laboratory science course is referred to as a Technical Elective. It may be non-sequential courses, yet must be selected from the same College of Sciences disciplines, and must have a mathematics prerequisite.
Notes:
DegreeWorks lists the available options and exclusions.
Technical Electives options of Chemistry 121N, Chemistry 123N do not required the associate laboratory components.
Biology 121N and Biology 123N may be taken without the associate laboratory component with special accommodations supplied by the CDA.
Military credits (MP) that are problem-solving based may be applied as technical electives with the approval of the CDA.
Transferred courses (TP) taken prior to acceptance into the BSCS program may be applied as substitutions for Technical Electives by the CDA.
Technical electives are waived for second degree seeking students and those completing double majors.
General Education
The requirements for General Education are dependent on the catalog year. The categories for the requirements are usually listed as followed:
Written Communication I
