University Libraries
Academic Success Initiatives
Housed inside the Student Success Center, Academic Success Initiatives (ASI) empowers all to thrive academically, personally, and professionally. Academic Success Initiatives provides an inclusive environment dedicated to building authentic relationships and community, fostering meaningful learning experiences, and collaborating with all as they pursue their passion and purpose. In partnership with the Provost, Vice Provost and other University leaders, this area is responsible for the coordination of academic success programs across the University.
ASI includes five offices:
Office of Academic Innovation & Learning Support
Monarch Internship & Co-op Office
Office of Study Abroad
TRiO Programs:  TRiO Upward Bound, TRiO Student Support Services, and TRiO McNair Scholars
In collaboration with the academic colleges and other partners across campus, these units provide a diverse array of services and programs for undergraduate students.  Staff work to ensure students learn about academic programs and majors; connect to campus peers, groups, and others with similar interests; make academic plans, monitor progress, and reach short-and long-term goals; engage in active learning and work-based learning programs; find and use academic support services; and showcase skills, talents, and abilities.
Center for Career & Leadership Development
The Center for Career and Leadership Development (CCLD) empowers undergraduate and graduate students and alumni in their career and leadership development from their first day as a Monarch through graduation and their career. Through strategic collaboration with campus and community partners, CCLD offers several programs and services, including career coaching and workshops, leadership development, resume reviews and job search preparation, career fairs and employer connections, a job search database called Handshake, student employment coordination and training, volunteer and service-learning programs, career treks, professional mentorship programs, living-learning and theme communities, and the Monarch Pantry.
The Student Employment Program is designed to assist students in locating on- or off-campus, part-time, seasonal, or Federal Work-Study (FWS) positions for those who qualify.
The Center for Career and Leadership Development collaborates with on- and off-campus organizations to post open jobs of all types, including permanent full-time positions, as well as on-campus roles, through ODU Handshake. This powerful interactive web-based system is available for free to students and alumni of Old Dominion University. The ODU Handshake database contains employer information, career information, a career events calendar and interview schedules, and the means to electronically apply for positions posted. Handshake is the primary tool used by CCLD to communicate with students about various career opportunities and events to help students succeed at Old Dominion University and into their careers.
Individual career coaching and electronic assessment tools, as well as workshops on career exploration, development, and the job search, are available to assist in major and career path selection. Students may sign up for an appointment with a career coach via Handshake or by visiting the office during drop-in coaching hours. CCLD also provides students with experiential learning opportunities through leadership seminars, service-learning course partnerships, career treks, job shadow, and mentorship opportunities. Students can also volunteer in and receive support from the Monarch Pantry and Monarch Clothing Closet. More information on career coaching, workshops, and experiential learning opportunities are located on CCLD’s website at odu.edu/career-leadership .
Career and internship fairs are held twice a year and are supplemented by specialized fairs for specific populations. Employers are also present on campus through information and tabling sessions, as well as employer and alumni career information panels and etiquette meals. Additional opportunities to connect with internships and co-operative opportunities are coordinated by ODU’s Monarch Internship and Co-Op Office ( odu.edu/internship ).
More information is available by calling the CCLD main office at 757-683-4388 during normal office hours, via email at ccld@odu.edu , or via the website at http://www.odu.edu/career-leadership . Staff members are also available in 2202 Webb Student Center.
Division of Student Enrollment, Engagement and Services
Student Enrollment, Engagement and Services employees are dedicated to student success and enrich the campus-based experience so all may belong and thrive.  We strengthen our community through a culture of care and service that unifies enrollment, engagement, and active learning.  Celebrating academic and inclusive excellence, our forward-focused graduates are equipped with knowledge, skills, and tenacity to thrive in a rapidly evolving world. The division provides creative leadership and strategic direction for a broad array of student recruitment and retention services and programs including:  Admissions (Undergraduate, Graduate, International), Assessment and Planning, Budget Management, Campus Life Services, Campus Visitors and Events, Center for Career and Leadership Development, Center for Orientation, Retention, and Exploration (CORE), Chartway Arena, Office of Counseling Services, Customer Relationship Management (CRM) and Integrated Systems, Dean of Students Office, Divisional Marketing and Communications, Divisional IT Support, Office of Educational Accessibility, Enrollment Management, Enrollment Marketing and Analytics, Student Financial Aid, Housing and Residence Life, Office of Intercultural Relations, Mail Center, Military Connection Center, Monarch Assistance Partners, Monarch Card and Business Services, Monarch Dining Services, Recreation and Wellness, Strategic Initiatives, Student Accountability and Academic Integrity, Student Engagement and Traditions, Student Health Services, University Village Bookstore, Webb Student Center, and Women's and Gender Equity Center.
Educational Accessibility
The Office of Educational Accessibility (OEA), located at 1021 in the Student Success Center, is dedicated to providing students with disabilities access to higher education. The University offers accommodations and services depending on documentation presented by the student. It complies with Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, and its Amendments of 2008. For students with specific learning, medical, psychological, physical or mobility, visual, hearing, or temporary and other challenges, reasonable accommodations are afforded. Students with disabilities benefit greatly from the accommodations and other supportive services offered by the Office of Educational Accessibility, which also significantly contribute to their academic performance.
All students must submit the proper documentation and register with OEA to receive help. Instructions for registering and guidelines for documentation can be found at https://www.odu.edu/accessibility .   Calling (757) 683-4655 will provide more detailed information. Interactions between students and OEA are kept confidential and private.  OEA expects new students who require interpreters to contact them at least 45 days before registration to prepare. As soon as a student has pre-registered for a semester, they must pre-register for accommodations for themselves.
An overview of compliance standards can be found at https://ww1.odu.edu/equity/ .
Student Outreach and Support (SOS)
Denisse Thillet-Tirado, Associate Dean of Students and Director of Student Outreach and Support
Student Outreach and Support (SOS) is a service within the Dean of Students Office that provides support to students who experience administrative, academic, or personal road blocks.  These services include extended absence notifications, emergency grants, and administrative withdrawals from the University.  SOS is available to help students achieve their personal and academic goals.
The University Care Team is an extension of Student Outreach and Support.  The Care Team was developed to provide a University-wide system of care and support for students who experience an unexpected crisis.  The Care Team's role is to determine effective strategies for addressing concerns and connecting students with the appropriate resources.  Student Outreach and Support is located in 2008 Webb Center, and can be reached at (757) 683-3442 or oducares@odu.edu . For more information please visit the SOS website at: www.odu.edu/sos .
University Libraries
Old Dominion University Libraries enrich the academic, research, and learning experience of the University community by inspiring and empowering the Monarch community to learn, grow, and create. The University Libraries provide students access to extensive digital resources, online journals, e-books, streaming media, and other electronic resources in all fields of research and instruction. The Libraries also offer access to Naro Video @ ODU Libraries , a collection of 43,000+ videos and materials made available to the Monarch community and to any member of Friends of the ODU Libraries.
On the University Libraries’ website at www.odu.edu/library , students can find library guides, instructional videos, Chat reference, and many other services. The Libraries include the Patricia W. and J. Douglas Perry Library, the Elise N. Hofheimer Art Library, and the Music Library and F. Ludwig Diehn Composers Room. Each facility holds specialized book collections, maps, scores, recordings, microforms, and equipment available for borrowing. At our Help Desks, staff are on hand to provide assistance with information, location, instruction, and information technology questions. Additionally, students and faculty members have online access to the Virtual Library of Virginia’s collections and may borrow books and other materials from participating libraries across the Commonwealth.
Edward E. Brickell Medical Sciences Library at Macon and Joan Brock Virginia Health Sciences at Old Dominion University
The Edward E. Brickell Medical Sciences Library is the major health care information resource for faculty, students, and staff of Macon and Joan Brock Virginia Health Sciences at Old Dominion University.  It also provides the Hampton Roads community with access to quality resources for their health information needs.
Information regarding access to Brickell Library resources can be found on the ODU and EVMS Library integration FAQ . For information on staffed hours of operation, additional services, and resources visit the Brickell Library website , call 757-446-5850, or email libBMSL@odu.edu .
Elise N. Hofheimer Art Library
Barry Arts Building, 47th Street and Monarch Way, Room 2008, second floor; 757-683-4059
The Hofheimer Art Library contains specialized books, journals, online resources, videos, audio-visual titles, and other materials for students and faculty in the visual arts. Reserve materials for ODU Art Department classes are available at the service desk. Individual and group study space, computers, drawing tablet, scanner, and network printer are available. Visit the Art Library at www.odu.edu/library/art .
Music Library and F. Ludwig Diehn Composers Room
Diehn Center for the Performing Arts, Room 189; 757-683-4173
The Music Library contains print scores, music audio, and video content. Reserve materials for School of Music classes are available at the service desk. Students have access to PC and Mac computers, a DVD/VCR player, CD player, audio cassette player, turntable, flatbed scanner, and network printer.
The Diehn Composers Room is co-located with the Music Library and contains unique and rare manuscripts, scores, audio recordings, memorabilia, and other specialized music materials. Reference and research services are available in the Reading Room, including the use of a Steinway grand piano by appointment only. Visit the Music Library and Diehn Composers Room at www.odu.edu/library/diehn .
Patricia W. and J. Douglas Perry Library
Perry Library offers quiet study space, collaborative rooms for group projects, accessibility services, a café, meeting space, and other facilities for student success. The Monarch community will also find Naro Video @ ODU Libraries .  This unique collection of 43,000+ videos and materials is located in Room 1222 of Perry Library.
Learning Commons @ Perry Library
First Floor, 757-683-4178
The Learning Commons @ Perry Library is a collaborative project of the University Libraries, Information Technology Services, and the Office of Academic Success Initiatives & Support (ASIS), providing year-round services. The facility includes individual study space, group collaboration space, presentation practice, computers, wireless access, printers, scanners, GIS/digital media/other specialized software, and a sound room that can be reserved by students. Students can access research assistance and resources, information technology assistance, tutoring and writing centers, and other services supporting student success.
At the Perry Library Help Desk, located in the Learning Commons ( www.odu.edu/learningcommons ), students with a valid University ID may borrow equipment, media, books, reserve materials, and other items. Graduate student study carrels are also available. Information on borrowing privileges, loan periods, and policies is available at www.odu.edu/library/services/borrowing .
Interlibrary Loan and Document Delivery Services
757-683-4170, 4172
Interlibrary loan allows ODU students, faculty, and staff to request journal articles, books, and other needed research materials not available in the University Libraries. The Commonwealth’s Virtual Library of Virginia interlibrary loan agreement ensures that students, faculty, and staff may obtain items located in other Virginia libraries. Document delivery services provide copies of materials held in the University Libraries’ collection to online and other eligible students, faculty, and staff. Interlibrary loan and document delivery requests can be submitted online at www.odu.edu/library/services/interlibrary-loan .
Research Help Services
Help Desk, First Floor, 757-683-4178
ODU Libraries staff assist students and faculty with all types of research using all formats of library resources. Librarians and staff provide direct individual assistance by telephone, e-mail, live online Chat, and face-to-face and virtual consultation by appointment. Local and online students may obtain assistance by visiting or calling the Help Desk, directly contacting a subject librarian, using the Chat service, or submitting a question through Ask-A-Librarian at https://www.odu.edu/library/help .
Instructional Support
ODU Libraries offer library instruction sessions to courses with research assignments or library-related learning goals. The Libraries also provide online tutorials, videos, and online guides to help students build research skills and increase knowledge in information literacy, as well as workshops and programming designed to support student learning and to facilitate connections between students, the Libraries, and the University community. Additional information can be found at www.odu.edu/library/services/instruction .
Special Collections & University Archives
Third floor, 757-683-4483
Special Collections & University Archives, located on the third floor of Perry Library, preserves and provides access to the Libraries’ unique and rare collections documenting the history of ODU, Virginia, and the region. The collections cover a wide range of topics that enrich scholarly opportunities, and students and faculty are encouraged to visit and use the collections and services. Special Collections’ materials include rare books, diaries, letters, legal and campaign files, oral histories, music, film, photographs, maps, and more. Moreover, the University Archives document the history of the University and include yearbooks, department records, student organization records, course catalogs, film, photographs, etc. Special Collections staff are available to assist students and faculty with research requests and host class sessions specializing in active-learning exercises with primary sources. Visit Special Collections at www.odu.edu/library/special-collections .
Several digitized collections of materials from Special Collections & University Archives are also freely available online. Visit the ODU Digital Collections at https://olddomuni.access.preservica.com/ .
ODU Digital Commons and Scholarly Communications Services
The Department of Research & Scholarly Communication includes the Libraries' dedicated subject specialist librarians, who provide reference and research assistance, library instruction, collection development, and collaboration to students and faculty at ODU. Our librarians are also available to assist with questions related to copyright and author rights, research data management, publishing, and research impact.  The department also oversees ODU Digital Commons ( digitalcommons.odu.edu ), the University’s institutional repository. Digital Commons brings together scholarly, creative, and institutional works for preservation, visibility, and worldwide open access. Digital Commons also provides a publishing platform for hosting journals, proceedings, and events.
Accessibility Services
First Floor, 757-683-4178
The Library Accessibility Room in the Learning Commons provides specialized equipment and quiet space for students registered with the University’s Office of Educational Accessibility . This wheelchair-accessible room can be reserved for individual use. The facility houses CCTV, workstations with FUSION Professional, Read and Write Gold, and other adaptive technologies. Orientation, reservations, and research consultation appointments are available through the Learning Commons Help Desk.
Also, the Help Desk provides on-demand paging to students who need special assistance with retrieving materials from the upper floors. Information about accessibility is available on the University Libraries’ website at www.odu.edu/library/services/accessibility .
Search catalog
