General Assembly Internship
General Assembly Internship
The Government Relations Office hosts the General Assembly Internship program each year. Selected interns work closely with Virginia state legislators and their staff in Richmond. Students develop professional skills while strengthening their political knowledge and gain a unique understanding of Virginia's General Assembly. This internship is a full-time, paid position and is advised by ODU's Government Relations Internship Program Coordinator.
Eligibility
Applicants must be currently enrolled as an undergraduate or graduate student at Old Dominion University to apply for this program. Selected interns must be able to reside in Richmond, VA Monday through Friday during session months. Housing is provided at a local Richmond hotel. This internship is typically held from early January to early March of each year. Students are encouraged to take online classes during this internship period.
Program Overview
On-site in downtown Richmond, VA
40-hours per week assisting Hampton Roads Legislators
Open to all majors
Directory
Application
The Government Relations team is accepting applications for the General Assembly Internship Program through October 5, 2025 by 5pm EST.
Application materials will include:
A professional resume
At least one letter of recommendation from an ODU faculty sponsor
Selected applicants will be invited to participate in an in-person interview with the internship selection committee.
If you have any questions regarding the application process, please contact the Government Relations team at governmentrelations@odu.edu .
General Assembly Internship Application
Testimonials
"The most satisfying [part] about this internship experience was the fantastic opportunities. I was able to get an inside view regarding the ins and outs of state politics and attend rallies addressing pressing concerns of our time." 2023 Intern
"It is an amazing experience you should totally apply for it! This internship will help you gain connections throughout the [C]ommonwealth to improve career outlook after college." 2023 Intern
"I was offered another internship during this one, and I was approached quite a few times about other jobs that I could jump into. It was great making these connections that will last a lifetime." 2019 Intern
"I enjoyed the ability to interact with the Senators, Delegates and their aids because I was able to learn from everyone." 2019 Intern
ODU General Assembly Interns
