Fall 2025 Commencement
Faces of ODU
No matter how far my career takes me, Old Dominion University will always have a special place in my heart, and I look forward to eventually giving back to the next generation of Monarchs.
Jada Cumberland Cybersecurity
Read More
My professor encouraged me to work in oral health, which is my passion. From day one, he was so supportive. He encouraged me to go for whatever I liked, he believed in me and offered opportunities that align with my interests.
May Salama Public Health
Read More
Transitioning from being a sailor to being a college student is the best thing that I ever did and I loved that part of my life, being in the Navy; but this is a really great way to spend the rest of my life. That's why I'm thankful for ODU and being able to do what I do.
William “Billy” Haber Psychology
Read More
My vision is to create a television broadcasting network and a nonprofit organization that stands for truth and justice. With my creative film background and Ph.D. in international studies, I’m poised to move towards fulfilling the mission that the Lord has given to me.
Edward Moses International Studies
I don't have any boundaries as to what I don't want to do. I'm open to all new opportunities. I don't want to miss a life-changing opportunity, so I'm open to everything.
LeiLani Harpster '25 Maritime & Supply Chain Management
After I received my bachelor’s degree, I knew there was more to learn in economics and I felt the need to pursue a master's degree, because I knew there was so much more that I could accomplish.
Ruth Sirma Economics
I knew as a kid that I wanted to do something that would help. Through engineering, I’ve found a way where I can help make infrastructure safe and reliable.
Paige Laning Civil Engineering
I want to be a renowned woman in the sports industry – not for the money or the fame. I want to make changes. I want to make sports more accessible.
Mariona Anto Domingo Sports Management
There’s no way I could’ve gotten through school without me being able to fit my schedule around my life.
Safiou Olossoumare Navy Veteran
