Experiential Learning
Experiential Learning
Experiential Learning is the process of  acquiring  knowledge through hands-on activity and reflective observation  of the activity and the experience of doing it.
Check out the exciting experiential learning opportunities  being offered  through the Center for Career and Leadership Development!
Student Job & Volunteer Fair
The Student Job and Volunteer Fair is intended for all students looking to work in a part-time capacity, volunteer, and/or connect with other experiential learning opportunities on or near campus. On campus and local community employers will be available to showcase opportunities for part-time jobs, and numerous campus, nonprofit, community, and government organizations will be on hand to share meaningful ways to engage in experiential learning and enhance your career skills through volunteering, mentorship, leadership, research, study abroad, and more! Make sure you are prepared to meet with employers and put your best foot forward by having your resume ready and meeting with a career coach.
The Fall and Spring Student Job and Volunteer Fairs are held within the first 4 weeks of classes.
Register on Handshake: Navigate to the “Events” tab and then go to the “Career fairs at your school” option to learn more about upcoming fairs, including currently registered employers/organizations, on Handshake !
Faculty/Staff & Employers:
Employers, Organizations, or Departments looking to recruit student talent? Contact the Experiential Learning team at experientiallearning@odu.edu to learn more about your recruitment options for this fair.
Handshake
Greater Norfolk Corporation (GNC) Executive Mentorship Program
The Greater Norfolk Corporation's Executive Mentorship Program is designed to pair local professionals from a wide range of industries with motivated college students for both the fall and spring semesters, career-oriented mentorship. Students will have the opportunity to experience one-on-one mentoring with a local Norfolk-area professional, explore potential networking connections and opportunities for advice and support, and learn about career paths and gain insights into professional experiences in a business setting. Past mentors have come from a wide range of industries, with students directly connected with people such as the Chief Executive Officer of The Digital Builders, Chief Strategy Officer of YMCA of South Hampton Roads, Director of Community Engagement of Work Program Architects, and more.
All rising sophomores, juniors, and seniors are invited to apply for the 2025-2026 Greater Norfolk Corporation.
One-on-One Mentoring - Students will have the opportunity to experience one-on-one mentoring with a local Norfolk-area professional.
Networking Opportunities - Explore potential networking connections with the help of a mentor! Career-specific professionals can offer advice and support for our future professionals.
Career Readiness - Students will work closely with mentors to gain professional experience in a business setting and learn more about their desired career path.
Past mentor industries have included:
Education
