Ways to Give
Make a Gift
Your University needs your help to meet the challenges that come with a new millennium. Your Dominion Fund gift will support important priorities of Old Dominion, such as:
Scholarships
Laboratory Facilities
Nationally Acclaimed Sports Teams
ODU is a state-supported institution that does not run on state funds alone. Private donations are essential to maintain the high levels of quality and excellence that students, alumni, and supporters of ODU have come to expect.
Private donations are essential to maintaining the quality education and cutting-edge research that are the cornerstones of Old Dominion University. Your money helps open the doors to new opportunities for ODU students and provides them with the tools they need to not only be successful but excel at whatever they undertake. Monetary donations also help keep tuition lower and make the university's offerings more competitive. Explore the various options for making donations to the university... The brick you lay today will support an ODU student's dream tomorrow.
How to Give
Private Donations
Private donations are essential to maintaining the quality education and cutting-edge research that are the cornerstones of Old Dominion University. Your money helps open the doors to new opportunities for ODU students and provides them with the tools they need to not only be successful but excel at whatever they undertake.
Tax-Smart Gift Options
We now offer tax-smart ways for you to support ODU students. Gifts from non-cash assets (including stocks, IRA gifts, Donor-Advised Funds and cryptocurrency) make an immediate impact on our work and can come with financial benefits for you. Use this donation platform linked above to easily make your gift, and so we can keep accurate records.
Planned Giving
When you include Old Dominion University in your estate plan, your generosity opens doors to rigorous programs and collaborative partnerships that change students’ lives. Thank you for ensuring that ODU will continue to serve our students and the Commonwealth well into the future.
