Support Research
Focused On  Research
Our designation as an R1 Research Institution by The Carnegie Foundation is a clear signal that ODU ranks among the country's top 4% of institutions.
But a big reason this designation is so prestigious is because it must continue to be earned. To remain an R1 institution, we must continue to invest in ODU’s research capabilities.
COASTAL RESILIENCE
ODU’s Oceanography Institute was among the world’s first when it was established more than 50 years ago. With the new funding, we can ensure that it remains world-class.
The department, now known as Ocean and Earth Sciences, has achieved breakthroughs in areas of study ranging from sea level rise to the life of phytoplankton. Faculty members and their students have conducted research in the waters from the Chesapeake Bay all the way to Antarctica.
Generating Results
The impact our research makes is more than just theoretical. With our Regional Resilience and Adaptation Initiative, we are focused on making a difference across a number of threats that present some of Hampton Roads’ biggest challenges.
Research at ODU is as varied as it is practical, with many projects extending well beyond coastal resilience. Our researchers also examine flooding and the built environment, green infrastructure, climate change and sea level rise, adaptation, cybersecurity, health, and community resilience, among many others.
Geotechnical/Soil Dynamics Laboratory
Our Geotechnical/Soil Dynamics Laboratory requires continued investment in state-of-the-art geotechnical testing devices and unique research equipment if we are to keep our research on the shearing edge of data acquisition.
Top Priorities
One of our top priorities will be to replace the department’s aging 55-foot research vessel, the Fay Slover, so we can equip students and faculty with a modernized vessel to pursue our leading research and maintain our preeminence in the field.
Monarch Catalyst Fund
The best investments are those that pay dividends. Our Catalyst Funds generate research that inspires further funding that creates a virtuous cycle of development.
The work of ODU faculty with ODU’s Institute for Coastal Adaptation & Resilience (ODU-ICAR) is a great example of such a project. This national center is advancing the resilience of coastal communities by integrating scientific and engineering knowledge with human dimensions to develop innovative solutions. Initial funding led to grants and securing hundreds of thousands of dollars in funding, which further inspired ODU faculty to help collaborate with the City of Norfolk to win a $24 million Rockefeller grant and subsequent funding from corporate partners like Dominion Energy to advance this research.
Give Now
