Hispanic and Latino Admissions Resources
Hispanic and Latino Admissions Resources
¡Bienvenidos!
(To view this page in Spanish, select the language at the bottom of the webpage)
My name is Enrique Rangel-Rodriguez, and I proudly serve as the Assistant Director of LatinX Recruitment here at Old Dominion University. I have the privilege of assisting Hispanic and Latino families in their pursuit of higher education. As a first-generation high school and college graduate myself, I understand the challenges faced by individuals from Latino and firstgeneration backgrounds.
In my role, I am passionate about supporting prospective students and families through the application process, bridging language barriers by translating admissions materials, conducting bilingual information sessions and tours and visiting schools and community organizations.
At Old Dominion University, we believe that education knows no boundaries, and we are committed to fostering an environment where all students can thrive. Contact me directly. I look forward to meeting you and supporting you through your Monarch journey!
Mi nombre es Enrique Rangel-Rodriguez, y orgullosamente soy el subdirector de Reclutamiento Latino aquí en Old Dominion University. Tengo el privilegio de ayudar a las familias Hispanas y Latinas en su búsqueda de una educación universitaria. Yo soy el primero en mi familia en graduarse de la preparatoria y de la universidad y por eso entiendo los desafíos que enfrentan las personas de origen Latino y de primera generación. En mi función, me apasiona apoyar a los estudiantes y sus familias a través del proceso de solicitud, traduciendo materiales de admisión, dirigiendo sesiones de información bilingüe y visitas guiadas, y visitando escuelas y organizaciones comunitarias.
Somos ODU: A Latino Monarch Experience
Join us on Saturday, November 8, 2025, for a special event designed for Hispanic and Latino families. Enjoy a warm welcome with breakfast, learn about admissions and financial aid, hear from current students, and tour our beautiful campus. Over lunch, connect with admissions staff, get your questions answered, and experience what it means to be part of the Monarch community. Register Now ▶
Spanish-Speaking Tours & Events
