Health Promotion Office
Health Promotion Office
Health Promotion provides innovative, evidence-based, engaging and enriching experiences to cultivate a culture of wellness and of care for students by fostering partnerships with student organizations, departments, national organizations and the surrounding community. We seek to engage students in health and wellness topics through hands on experiences and one-on-one interactions in an inclusive environment that promotes a continuum of growth and learning.
Get Involved
Join Our Team
Volunteer to help with Health Promotion programs or become a paid Monarch Wellness Ambassador! Monarch Wellness Ambassadors are ODU students who help to create a culture of wellness at ODU and act as a liaison between the Health Promotion Office and the campus community.
Contact Us
Co-Sponsor an Event
Do you need support for an upcoming health education or awareness event? We can provide expertise and tools for sleep hygiene, stress management, nutrition, and sexual health. Please complete the Co-Sponsorship request form.
Co-Sponsorship Request
Host an Event
Health Promotion provides virtual and in-person educational events for residence halls, student organizations and academic classes. Need a custom event? Let us know and we will collaborate with you to create the program that meets your needs.
Directory
Questions?
Stop by the Health Promotion Office in the Student Recreation & Well-Being Center (Suite 2026) or email us at healthpromotion@odu.edu .
Mental & Emotional Health
Outdoor Adventure Center Did you know that the great outdoors is proven to help improve mental health? Take some time to get outside!
De-Stress Week
De-Stress encourages you to prioritize self care, which is so important for mental health, especially during finals!
Outdoor Adventure Center Did you know that the great outdoors is proven to help improve mental health? Take some time to get outside!
Mental & Emotional Health Events
De-Stress Week
De-Stress encourages you to prioritize self care, which is so important for mental health, especially during finals!
Alcohol Consumption Cannabis Use Nicotine Use Events Resources
Drinking is not necessary to have a good time! If you choose to drink, be sure to do so safely by avoiding high risk or binge drinking. When you consume more than the recommended standard drink amounts in a two-hour time period, you are engaging in binge drinking or high-risk drinking.
What is a standard drink size?
1 standard drink is equal to 12 ounces of beer, 5 ounces of wine, or 1 ounce of 80 proof liquor. The lines on a Solo Cup are measurement marks .
How many standard drinks in a 2-hour sitting does it take before high-risk drinking occurs?
Men: 5+ in one sitting | Women: 4+ in one sitting
*Disclaimer: If you are under the age of 21, you cannot legally consume or purchase alcohol.
Here are a few tips to keep in mind if you choose to consume alcohol:
Download and use the ODU Safe App
Avoid mixing alcohol and other drugs
Determine the number of drinks you plan to consume before drinking
Eat before and while you are drinking
Plan how to get home before going out to drink
Ask friends to hold you accountable for sticking to your drinking rules
ATOD Workshop Request Form
What is Cannabis?
Cannabis (also known as marijuana, weed, pot, or dope) is a dry, shredded green/brown mix of flowers, stems, seeds, and leaves from the Cannabis sativa, Cannabis indica, or Cannabis ruderalis plant. Cannabis is made up of more than 100 components, which are known as cannabinoids. The two main components in cannabis are tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) which is the psychoactive, mind-altering component and cannabidiol (CBD) which is not impairing.
Cannabis Effects
Cannabis does include some positive benefits like relaxation, pain management, and relief for anxiety or depression, but it can also lead to negative outcomes and problems if used in unhealthy ways. Frequent use can lead to lower academic success, more relationship problems, and poorer mental and physical heath. If you choose to use cannabis, make sure to practice safer habits and make informed decisions about your use to reduce the risk of developing long-term negative effects.
Cannabis Policy
Even though cannabis is legal in Virginia for those 21 years and older, it does not mean that it is 100% risk free and may still cause some harm. The use, possession, and cultivation of cannabis is still illegal at the federal level. Since Old Dominion University is a federally funded university, it remains illegal for all individuals regardless of age to use, possess, sell, give, or distribute cannabis. Violations are subject to sanctions according to Old Dominion's Code of Student Conduct.
Cannabis Harm Reduction Strategies
If you choose to use, follow these tips to reduce the risk for harm:
Use in moderation- Try to use lower amounts, use occasionally, and have more days that are cannabis-free. Daily use can increase mental and physical health issues.
Don't hold your breath- Cannabis smoke contains many of the same toxins as tobacco smoke which when exposed to your lungs can cause harm. If you choose to smoke, don't hold the smoke in your lungs for a long time to reduce exposure.
Wait it out- Smoking or vaping cannabis will result in almost immediate effects. However, edible effects can take 30 minutes to 2 hours to be felt. Wait for the effects to be felt before deciding to consume more cannabis.
Start low, go slow- If you are a new user, choose to use lower THC products and slowly increase the potency levels. Remember that it is easier to develop tolerance to cannabis as you increase THC potency and frequency of use.
Plan a safe ride- It is not safe to drive while high. Wait 4-6 hours if smoking cannabis and 6-8 hours if ingesting before getting behind the wheel. In some cases, it you may need to wait longer than these recommended times. Always plan a ride with a sober drive or use a ride service.
Don't mix substances- Using cannabis with other drugs like alcohol, tobacco, or prescription drugs can lead to unpredictable health outcomes. Play it safe by sticking to one substance at a time.
Know the source- If you are purchasing cannabis, make sure to purchase from trusted and legal sources. This will reduce the risk of consuming cannabis that may be laced with other drugs.
Know your limits- Know when it is time to cut back or stop. Practice saying "no." Keep track of your tolerance and take t-breaks often to lower your tolerance and reduce your risk for addiction. Use the T-Break Guide to help take a 3-week tolerance break !
Getting Assistance
If you or a friend are concerned about your cannabis use and would like assistance in taking a t-break, contact the Health Educator Steven Gunzelman at sgunzelm@odu.edu to set up a time to meet.
ATOD Workshop Request Form
Nicotine is classified as a stimulant drug due to its stimulating and pleasing effects caused in the brain and body. Nicotine can be found in tobacco-based products like cigarettes, cigars, and chewing tobacco, as well as tobacco-free products like e-cigarettes and vapes. Nicotine products are not safe for consumption due to the many toxic and cancer-causing chemicals in the products. Also, the highly addictive property of nicotine can harm the parts of the brain that control attention, learning, mood, and impulse control.
Smoking is the most preventable cause of death in the US. It has been found that immediate relief occurs after smoking or vaping as stopped. For example, within just 20 minutes heart rate and blood pressure drop. Within the first 2 weeks, circulation improves and lung function increases. Within 1 year, risk for heart diseases go down by half. Once an individual stops smoking, their risk for cancer, heart disease, COPD, and diabetes are all reduced.
Developing a Quit Plan
When it comes to quitting smoking or vaping, it is important to develop a quit plan to make it easier to stay on track and quit for good. Items usually incorporated into a quit plan include setting a quit date, identifying reasons for quitting, preparing for a quit day by recognizing triggers, and finding successful ways to deal with cravings. Consider making your own Quit Plan that fits your life. To learn more about vaping and steps for quitting visit Vape Free VA.
Cessation Resources
To strengthen a quit plan, consider using these cessation resources to learn helpful tips and information, and gain additional support as you make the decision to quit. Quitlines have been proven to more than double an individuals’ chances of successfully quitting.
Quit Now Virginia
Quit Now Virginia provides free information and coaching by phone, text, chat, or online to all Virginia residents who want to quit smoking or using tobacco. Call 1-800-QUIT-NOW (784-8669) for free and confidential phone support or visit Quit Now Virginia for web support. Once enrolled, receive Text2Quit messages to help you quit. Services available in English and Spanish.
Counseling is offered by trained and qualified Quit Coaches either through one-on-one coaching sessions, online groups, online dashboard, text messaging, or nicotine replacement therapy. Counseling is available 24/7, is free, and is confidential.
EX Program
The EX Program developed by Truth Initiative and Mayo Clinic has been shown to increase the odds of quitting by 40%. This evidence-based approach incorporates learning new skills to change smoking behaviors, finding support, and exploring quit medication if needed. Sign up to the EX Program to receive free 24/7 support and join a community of millions of other quitters.
Getting Assistance
If you or a friend are concerned about your nicotine use and would like assistance in cutting back or quitting, contact the Health Educator Steven Gunzelman at sgunzelm@odu.edu to set up a time to meet.
Happy Hour with a Twist
Get happy for the first Activity Hour of the semester with free food, fun, music, and games! Learn about the importance of making healthy choices and win a free shirt by completing the online E-Chug assessment prior to the event.
Hypnotic Intoxication
Hypnotic Intoxication will amaze you as a hypnotist studies the powers of the subconscious mind. Simply watch or participate in the performance to learn more about the effects of alcohol in social settings.
Great American Smoke-Out
There's never been a better time to say goodbye to smoking tobacco. Sign a pledge to go COLD TURKEY and receive a free Subway turkey sandwich! The Great American Smoke-Out is an annual event created by the American Cancer Society (ACS).
OctSOBERfest
OctSOBERfest is a month full of events that provide tons of fun and connection without the consumption of alcohol. Stop by the OctSOBERfest Kick Off to grab a calendar of events and receive information about maintaining healthy habits!
Monarch Safe Spring Break Week
Get ideas to have fun safely during spring break with a focus on harm reduction. Learn how to manage familial relationships during the break as well as ways to destress during your time away from campus.
No Booza Palooza
Learn about the importance of making healthy choices surrounding alcohol. Earn a free t-shirt by completing the online E-Chug assessment prior to the event!
Weeding Out the Myths
De-stress by planting a mini succulent in a pot at the Plant Bar! Learn information and debunk a few myths surrounding cannabis to ensure 4/20 is celebrated safely.
