Laboratory work required. Introduction to concepts, principles, challenges, and research in major areas of AI. Areas of…
CS 480
Introduction to Artificial Intelligence
Laboratory work required. Introduction to concepts, principles, challenges, and research in major areas of AI. Areas of discussion include: natural language and vision processing, machine learning, machine logic and reasoning, robotics, expert and mundane systems. Prerequisites: A grade of C or better in any one of: CS 250, CS 251, CS 253, CS 260, CS 261, CS 263, or DASC 255.
CS 418
Laboratory work required. Overview of Internet and World Wide Web; web servers and security, HTTP protocol; web…
CS 418
Web Programming
Laboratory work required. Overview of Internet and World Wide Web; web servers and security, HTTP protocol; web application and design; server side scripts and database integration, and programming for the Web. Prerequisites: A grade of C or better in CS 312 and CS 330.
CS 432
Provides an overview of the World Wide Web and associated decentralized information structures, focusing mainly on the…
CS 432
Web Science
Provides an overview of the World Wide Web and associated decentralized information structures, focusing mainly on the computing aspects of the Web: how it works, how it is used, and how it can be analyzed. Students will examine a number of topics including: web architecture, web characterization and analysis, web archiving, Web 2.0, social networks, collective intelligence, search engines, web mining, information diffusion on the web, and the Semantic Web. Prerequisites: A grade of C or better in any one of: CS 250, CS 251, CS 253, CS 260, CS 261, CS 263, or DASC 255.
Full Course Catalog
Careers
Check out these ideas from ODU's Center for Career & Leadership Development and the Occupational Information Network (O*NET) . A median salary is a midpoint of what people typically earn—half of those surveyed earned above the median salary, and half earned below.
Computer Programmers
$87,530 Median Salary
Create, modify, and test the code, forms, and script that allow computer applications to run. Work from specifications drawn up by software developers or other individuals. May assist software developers by analyzing user needs and designing software solutions. May develop and write computer programs to store, locate, and retrieve specific documents, data, and information.
Software Developers, Applications
$106,710 Median Salary
Develop, create, and modify general computer applications software or specialized utility programs. Analyze user needs and develop software solutions. Design software or customize software for client use with the aim of optimizing operational efficiency. May analyze and design databases within an application area, working individually or coordinating database development as part of a team. May supervise computer programmers.
Web Administrators
$91,080 Median Salary
Manage web environment design, deployment, development and maintenance activities. Perform testing and quality assurance of web sites and web applications.
Network and Computer Systems Administrators
$86,340 Median Salary
Install, configure, and support an organization's local area network (LAN), wide area network (WAN), and Internet systems or a segment of a network system. Monitor network to ensure network availability to all system users and may perform necessary maintenance to support network availability. May monitor and test Web site performance to ensure Web sites operate correctly and without interruption. May assist in network modeling, analysis, planning, and coordination between network and data communications hardware and software. May supervise computer user support specialists and computer network support specialists. May administer network security measures.
Alumni Careers
