Scholarships
Find & apply for as many scholarships as you can—it's free money for college!
Start researching early, and meet deadlines, and you may be on your way to scholarship success.
Scholarships are gifts. They don't need to be repaid. There are thousands of them, offered by ODU, employers, individuals, private companies, nonprofits, communities, religious groups, and professional and social organizations.
List of Scholarships
New Freshmen | Transfer Students
Scholarships at Old Dominion University have been established through the generosity of individuals, organizations, and corporations to recognize outstanding academic performance and to assist students in pursuing their educational goals.
List of Scholarships (Catalog)
Criteria
Scholarship awards are based on a variety of criteria. For some awards, eligibility is entirely determined by academic merit or potential. Generally, recipients have earned at least a 3.4 grade point average and are full time, degree-seeking students. To determine your eligibility for need-based scholarships offered through the university, you must file the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) prior to January 1st of each academic year.
Selection Procedures
Selection procedures vary for these awards. For all scholarships, you must be admitted to the University. For some scholarships, a portfolio, an audition, or participation in a specific program may be required. You will receive written notification of any scholarship you are to receive. Each year, students are matched to endowed scholarship opportunities based on meeting preferred criteria established by the scholarship donor and information already known to the university via the student’s admissions application, academic transcripts, and FAFSA information. A university scholarship committee determines scholarship selections.  If a student is selected for additional scholarships based on academic merit or financial need, the student will be notified via their ODU email address over the summer through the start of the Fall semester each year. There are no additional scholarship applications needed other than the admissions application and Free Application for Federal Student Aid. (FAFSA)  To maximize student financial aid eligibility and scholarship consideration for the upcoming 2026-2027 academic year, please complete the FAFSA application on time (October 1st) and before ODU’s priority consideration date.
All incoming freshmen and transfer students are considered for Academic and Endowed scholarships managed by the Student Office of Financial Aid based on information provided on their admissions applications. The major scholarships offered to Old Dominion University students are based on information already known to the University.
New incoming freshman and transfer students can identify institutional scholarship interest by selecting "YES" to the institutional scholarship indicator when completing an admissions application. New students will be able to select from various scholarship options listed with in the admissions application.
Incoming freshmen are automatically considered for merit-based scholarships based on academic performance. Merit-based scholarships are managed by the Office of Admissions; financial need is not required.
Honors College Students
The Honors College scholarships are awarded to a select group of entering freshmen and transfer students who, on the basis of their academic achievement, are selected for admission into the Honors College. Students who continue to meet the Honors College requirements after the first year may have the scholarship renewed up to three years (six semesters).
Honors Scholarships
Current Students
Scholarships at Old Dominion University have been established through the generosity of individuals, organizations, and corporations to recognize outstanding academic performance and to assist students in pursuing their educational goals.
Scholarship Form
Criteria
Scholarship awards are based on a variety of criteria such as: grade point average, full-time enrollment status, and being a degree-seeking student. For some awards, eligibility is entirely determined by academic merit or potential. To determine your eligibility for need-based scholarships offered through the university, you must file the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) prior to January 1st of each academic year.
Selection Procedures
Selection procedures vary for these awards. For all scholarships, you must be admitted to the University. For some scholarships, a portfolio, an audition, or participation in a specific program may be required. You will receive written notification of any scholarship you are to receive. Each year, students are matched to endowed scholarship opportunities based on meeting preferred criteria established by the scholarship donor and information already known to the university via the student’s admissions application, academic transcripts, and FAFSA information. A university scholarship committee determines scholarship selections.  If a student is selected for additional scholarships based on academic merit or financial need, the student will be notified via their ODU email address over the summer through the start of the Fall semester each year. There are no additional scholarship applications needed other than the admissions application and Free Application for Federal Student Aid. (FAFSA)  To maximize student financial aid eligibility and scholarship consideration for the upcoming 2026-2027 academic year, please complete the FAFSA application on time (October 1st) and before ODU’s priority consideration date.
Change in Eligibility
Continuing students that are not incoming freshman or new transfer students, are also able to update any new scholarship attributes for scholarship consideration by completing the Continuing and Graduate Scholarship form .
The Scholarship Form for Continuing and Graduate Students is available for students who have a change in scholarship eligibility according to the Criteria Checklist (included on the Scholarship Form). Continuing students who meet the above circumstances must complete and submit the form to the Office of Student Financial Aid, 2002 Rollins Hall, Norfolk, VA 23529-0052. The form must be received by March 1, each year to be considered for scholarships for the following academic year.
Graduate Fellowships
A fellowship provides financial support to graduate students to pursue graduate studies without associated teaching or research responsibilities (as they are in a teaching or research assistantship). Fellowships are generally merit-based internal or external awards to support a student in a full-time course of study.
International
We have a mission to provide high-quality educational opportunities for students no matter their location.
To support that mission, we offer scholarships for international students taking classes on campus or through ODU Gobal while residing in other countries
Dragas Family Scholarship
Dragas Family Scholarship funds a first-year or sophomore, undergraduate, international applicant from Greece planning to study at Old Dominion University. International applicants are individuals intending to apply for an F-1 visa who hold citizenship in a country outside the U.S. and who don't also possess U.S. citizenship or permanent residency.
International Merit Scholarship
Unique among public research institutions, Old Dominion University offers a renewable (up to four years) international undergraduate merit scholarship . Awards range between $5,000 and $14,000 annually to qualified applicants.
Foster Care
A foster care student is defined for this program as one who was in foster care at the time they received their high school diploma or general education diploma (GED); in the custody of a social service agency or a special needs adoption at the time they received their high school diploma or GED; or was formerly in foster care when turning 18 years old and subsequently received a high school diploma or GED.
Virginia Legislative Information System Chapter 589
How to Apply
Step 1: Complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) , which will help determine your financial need for tuition assistance.
Step 2: Submit Support documentation
Documentation from the Department Social Services, and
The Social Services document must include the dates in foster care, or
Assistance received for a special need adoption
Step 3: Upon receipt of documentation, Financial Aid Counselors will review your FAFSA results and documentation to verify your qualification for the tuition assistance recommended by the State Council of Higher Education. Assistance will consist of Federal, State and institution awards. Please allow 4 to 6 weeks from the date you submit your documentation. Should you have questions please contact our office via email or virtual counseling .
Criteria
Each public institution of higher education shall provide a grant for the payment of tuition and mandatory education and general fees, except fees established for the purpose of paying for course materials such as laboratory fees, and, if such institution is a baccalaureate public institution of higher education, room and board, for any Virginia student who:
a. Has received a high school diploma or has passed a high school equivalency examination approved by the Board of Education and was in foster care or in the custody of the Department of Social Services or was considered a special needs adoption at any time after he turned 14; or
b. Was in foster care when he turned 18 and subsequently received a high school diploma or passed a high school equivalency examination approved by the Board of Education;
Is enrolled or has been accepted for enrollment as a full-time or part-time student, taking a minimum of six credit hours per semester, in a degree or certificate program of at least one academic year in length or in a noncredit workforce credential program in a comprehensive community college;
Has not been enrolled in postsecondary education as a full-time student for more than five years or does not have a bachelor's degree;
Maintains the required grade point average established by the governing board of the institution at which he is enrolled;
Has submitted complete applications for federal student financial aid programs for which he may be eligible;
Demonstrates financial need; and
Meets any additional financial need requirements established by the governing board of the institution at which he is enrolled for the purposes of such grant.
Outside Agency
If you receive a scholarship from a high school, service agency, private business or any other outside agency, it is advised that the outside agency send official notice stating the student's name, Student University Identification Number (UIN), and amount of the scholarship.
If you have recently received additional scholarships, advise the financial aid office immediately so that the scholarship, may be considered when calculating the automatic deferment. Scholarship notices must be submitted on the official letterhead of the donating organization and should stipulate any special conditions the student must meet in order to receive the award.
Students are strongly urged to contact the organization and arrange that scholarship checks be forwarded to the address above prior to tuition deadline. Some organizations require proof of registration and/or academic transcripts before sending a check to the University. It is the student's responsibility to comply with any requirements stipulated by the awarding agency.
Organizations should forward scholarship notifications to:
Outside Agency Coordinator
Office of Student Financial Aid
Old Dominion University
