Accept Your Aid Managing Your Student Loan Managing Your Grants & Scholarships
Admitted students will be sent notifications from Old Dominion University of their eligibility for aid to their ODU email account once the aid offer is available for viewing and accepting. The student must accept or decline the aid as offered via online within 10 days of the date of the notification or by May 1, whichever date is latter. Notification of changes to your initial award offer will be sent via email.
Financial Aid Self Service Overview
Manage Your Student Loans
How to Access Your Federal Funding Information
National Student Loan Data System (NSLDS)
The NSLDS central database provides a centralized, integrated view of Title IV loans and grants so that recipients of Title IV Aid can access and inquire about their Title IV loans and/or grant data.
NSLDS Central Database
Post-Graduate Loan Repayment
Graduating is a big achievement! However, during this time students who used loans must begin thinking about repayment. Research loan repayment options and choose the plan that will best fit your financial situation.
Loan Repayment Options
Loans in Default
Need help with a defaulted student loan? You now have more options than ever to help repay your student loans.
Addressing Defaulted Student Loans
Student Loan Service Centers
Access this quick reference list with Service Center numbers and websites that will help you manage your student loans.
Find Service Centers
Each grant and/or scholarship has specific eligibility requirements. Please check with the individual grant/scholarship agency to ensure that you are meeting those requirements. For Institutional grants and/or scholarships, please review the requirements in the ODU Catalog . It is the student's responsibility to comply with any requirements stipulated by the awarding agency.
Accept Your Aid
Admitted students will be sent notifications from Old Dominion University of their eligibility for aid to their ODU email account once the aid offer is available for viewing and accepting. The student must accept or decline the aid as offered via online within 10 days of the date of the notification or by May 1, whichever date is latter. Notification of changes to your initial award offer will be sent via email.
Financial Aid Self Service Overview
Managing Your Student Loan
