How to Register for a Trip
Click on the trip you are interested in to go to the calendar event
Click on the "RSVP" or "Register" button to go to the Rec Well Portal.
Click the "register" button to sign into the Rec Well Portal and sign up for the event. Payments are also made in the Rec Well Portal.
Refund Policy: Recreation & Wellness does not issue refunds unless for cancelled events/programs or extenuating circumstances approved by the department.
First Ascent
First Ascent
First Ascent is a unique orientation program for students coming to Old Dominion University each Fall. This outdoor adventure-based orientation introduces new students to fellow peers and helps ease their transition into college life, while having fun in the outdoors. This experience will help establish the foundation for building meaningful relationships within the ODU community.
No previous experience is required for any of the adventures. Our trained Outdoor Adventure Program staff will lead each adventure group through its designed itinerary!
All trips include: round trip transportation to and from the destination, all outdoor equipment and food. Dietary restrictions will be taken into consideration when planning the menu.
2026 First Ascent Trip Options
Check back for more information!
Interested? Registration will open mid-August. Until then, please add your name to our interest list by selecting "Outdoors & Adventure" and then "First Ascent" on this interest sheet . We will contact you with more information once it becomes available. We hope you can join us for this unique opportunity to meet other new Monarchs and enjoy the outdoors! Please email us at recwell@odu.edu if you have any questions in the meantime.
Plan a trip for your Campus Department
Whether it is a learning to surf day at the beach or a sunset paddle on the Elizabeth River, we can put together a trip that fits the needs of your department. If you are a part of a campus department and would like to organize an adventure trip with the Outdoor Adventure Program, please contact us at recwell@odu.edu .
Trip Scholarships
Recreation & Wellness is looking for a student organization to take on a paddleboarding trip at Whitehurst Beach or on a Day Hike at First Landing State Park, free of charge! Get to know the members in your organization or simply spend time together in the great outdoors through our Scholarship Trip Program. All equipment is provided by the Outdoor Adventure Center. Apply Online
Recreation & Wellness
