Soccer balls (indoor and outdoor)
Table tennis paddles and balls
Volleyballs (indoor and outdoor)
Weight and dip belts
Yoga mats
Equipment must be returned by closing on the same day of check out. Charges may apply for any unreturned, lost and/or damaged equipment.
Policies
Informal Recreation (Pickup Games)
Groups that request a specified activity during informal recreation must notify the Facility Manager. Individuals or groups playing other activities in these space will be given five minutes to finish their activity. The Facility Manager will then stop play and set up the proper equipment for the selected informal activity.
Individuals may not use informal recreation time for organized activities. Groups interested in reserving an area for activity should fill out the Indoor Student Recreation and Well-Being Center Request Form using Virtual EMS .
Main Gym and Multi-Activity Court (MAC)
Equipment (basketballs, volleyballs, soccer balls, etc.) may be checked out by members from the Equipment Desk. Equipment must be returned by closing on the same day of check out. Charges may apply for any unreturned, lost and/or damaged equipment.
Open recreation activities are first-come, first serve with a 1-hour time limit. Please see facility schedules for available times.
No personal stereos are permitted.
Keep the floor clear. All personal belongings must be kept in cubbies or lockers.
Do not move any equipment set-up on courts. Ask the building staff for assistance with the set-up or break down of equipment.
Water in sealable, shatter-proof containers is permitted; other food and drink is prohibited.
Racquetball Courts
Non-marking athletic shoes are required.
Personal belongings, gym bags, backpacks, etc., can be placed on the exterior of the court between the fins or in storage lockers.
Reservations may be made for racquetball, badminton and table tennis for up to one hour per day. Reservations may be made up to 24 hours in advance by calling the Equipment Desk at 757-683-4288.
All Players must check in with the Equipment Desk to have their reserved court setup accordingly.
Reserved court time will be forfeited after 10 minutes.
The badminton nets, Wallyball nets and table tennis tables must be set-up and taken down by SRWC staff only.
Racquetball wrist straps and protective eyewear are strongly recommended.
