On-Campus Student Employment
On-Campus Student Employment
Need a student to work for you on a part-time, research, or temporary assignment on campus?
LEAP
The Learn & Earn Advantage Program (LEAP) is an on-campus work program that allows eligible undergraduate students the opportunity to earn money and gain valuable job-related skills during the semester through part-time jobs here on campus.
Request a LEAP Student Employee ►
STAT Program
The Student Temporary Assist Team (STAT) program is an on-campus temporary employment service providing short-term work assignments in various ODU departments. STAT offers a variety of work experiences and flexibility to meet diverse schedules and needs.
Federal Work Study VA Work Study
Federal Work-Study provides part-time jobs for undergraduate and graduate students with financial need, allowing them to earn money to help pay education expenses. The encourages community service work and work related to the student's course of study.
This work-study program is a VA education benefit offered to military students working towards a college degree, vocational certificate, or from ¾ to full time. In this assistance program, financial aid is traded in return for volunteering personal time. Most work-study assignments include completing and processing paperwork, assisting with recruitment services, and working at medical facilities, among other common VA duties. More information about VA Work Study ►
Federal Work Study
Federal Work-Study provides part-time jobs for undergraduate and graduate students with financial need, allowing them to earn money to help pay education expenses. The encourages community service work and work related to the student's course of study.
VA Work Study
This work-study program is a VA education benefit offered to military students working towards a college degree, vocational certificate, or from ¾ to full time. In this assistance program, financial aid is traded in return for volunteering personal time. Most work-study assignments include completing and processing paperwork, assisting with recruitment services, and working at medical facilities, among other common VA duties. More information about VA Work Study ►
