What does LeADERS look like if I am a…
Freshman (0-29 credit hours)?
Welcome to ODU!  Your first year is all about exploring who you are, why you are pursuing a degree, and how your time at ODU can advance you towards your goals.  LeADERS can help you with this process!  By joining LeADERS as a freshman, you can:
Attend special events and opportunities just for LeADERS Candidates.
Plan which LeADERS courses you want to take (with your advisor, of course!).
Participate in a co-curricular experience such as the Leadership Lecture Series or Alternative Spring Break.
Attend ODU’s Career Fair and Internship Fair to learn about professional opportunities in your major. LeADERS candidates get early access to the Career Fair and a private tour of the event!
Attend ODU’s Undergraduate Research Symposium to see what it looks like to conduct research as an undergraduate student.
Begin designing and building your LeADERS ePortfolio.
Submit Form
Sophomore (30-59 credit hours)?
With a year under your belt, you’ve gotten a hang of this whole “college” thing. You have a better sense of what it’s like to be a student at ODU and what experiences the University can offer you.  As you continue your journey towards graduation, LeADERS can help you with exploring all of the options available!  By joining LeADERS as a sophomore, you can:
Attend special events and opportunities for LeADERS Candidates.
Plan which LeADERS courses you want to take (with your advisor, of course!).
Complete any necessary prerequisites for your planned LeADERS courses.
Participate in a co-curricular experience such as the Leadership Lecture Series or Alternative Spring Break.
Attend ODU’s Career Fair and Internship Fair to learn about professional opportunities in your major. LeADERS candidates get early access to the Career Fair and a private tour of the event!
Attend ODU’s Undergraduate Research Symposium to see what it looks like to conduct research as an undergraduate student.
Check out a Study Abroad information session to see if there is an opportunity that’s right for you.
Swing by the Strome Center for Entrepreneurship and Innovation and listen to a Be Your Own Boss (B.Y.O.B.) guest speaker share their journey to success as an entrepreneur.
Take an updated headshot and add it to your LeADERS ePortfolio.
Submit Form
Junior (60-89 credit hours)?
Now the fun really begins!  You’ve knocked out your general education and prerequisite courses and diving head first into your major coursework.  Now is the perfect time to focus on gaining hands-on experiences within your degree. By joining LeADERS as a junior, you can:
Attend special events and opportunities for LeADERS Candidates.
Use Degree Works to see which LeADERS courses you have already completed or are currently taking.
Plan which LeADERS courses you still want to take (with your advisor, of course!).
Think through co-curricular experiences you’ve already completed and see if they qualify for LeADERS credit.
Participate in a co-curricular experience such as the Leadership Lecture Series or Alternative Spring Break.
Attend ODU’s Career Fair and Internship Fair to learn about professional opportunities in your major and find an internship. LeADERS candidates get early
access to the Career Fair (i.e., a head start on those internship opportunities) and a private tour of the event!
Attend ODU’s Undergraduate Research Symposium to see what it looks like to conduct research as an undergraduate student and connect with faculty doing research in areas of interest to you.
Study abroad in a short-term or long-term program or as part of a course.
Swing by the Strome Center for Entrepreneurship and Innovation and participate in the 3-Day Start-Up program to get your business venture up and running.
Look through the assignments that you’ve completed so far and add ones that you are particularly proud of to your LeADERS ePortfolio.
Submit Form
Senior (90+ credit hours)?
You are in the home stretch!  It’s time to start thinking about what comes next.  Is graduate school on the horizon?  Joining the workforce?  Opening your own business?  This is your last chance to gain the experiences needed to push you over the finish line and set you apart from the rest.  LeADERS can help you with this! By joining LeADERS as a senior, you can:
Use Degree Works to see which LeADERS courses you have already completed or are currently taking.
Earn LeADERS credit through co-curricular experiences you’ve completed such as the Leadership Lecture Series or Alternative Spring Break.
Attend ODU’s Career Fair and Internship Fair to learn about professional opportunities in your major, connect with employers, or find an internship. LeADERS candidates get early access to the Career Fair and a private tour of the event, so you will be one of the first people employers speak to that day!
Present at ODU’s Undergraduate Research Symposium.
Take an updated headshot and polish your LeADERS ePortfolio.
Attend the LeADERS Medal Ceremony honoring you and your accomplishments.
Wear your LeADERS Bronze, Silver, or Gold medal during commencement!
