Register for a Lifeguard Course
Lifeguard Certifications
The American Red Cross Lifeguarding Course teaches the knowledge and skills needed to help prevent and respond to aquatic emergencies. This includes land and water rescue skills as well as first aid and CPR/AED.
Prerequisites must be passed in order for candidates to take part in full class:
Swim 300 yards continuously demonstrating breath control and rhythmic breathing. Candidates may swim using front crawl, breaststroke, or a combination of both but swimming on the back or side is prohibited. Swim goggles may be used.
Tread water for 2 minutes using only the legs.
Complete a timed event within 1 minute, 40 seconds. Retrieve a 10-pound object from 10-15 feet, return to the surface, and swim 20 yards back to the starting point with the object within 1 minute, 40 seconds. Goggles cannot be used.
Lifeguard Certification Course
ODU Student $215 | SRWC Member $225 | Non-Member $265
This Blended Learning course combines online learning modules followed by an in-person skills session.
The purpose of the American Red Cross Lifeguarding Course is to teach the knowledge and skills needed to help prevent and respond to aquatic emergencies. This includes land and water rescue skills as well as first aid and CPR/AED. Blended learning must be complete before the first day of class. If you fail to complete the online modules first, you will not be permitted to attend the in-person portion.
Lifeguard Instructor Course
ODU Student $225 | SRWC Member $250 | Non-Member $300
The Lifeguard Instructor Course trains candidates to teach American Red Cross Lifeguarding, Lifeguard Blended Learning, CPR/AED for Professional Rescuers and Health Care Providers. To be eligible for the instructor course, instructor candidates must be at least 17 years old on or before the last day of the instructor course. Candidates must also:
Possess one of the following:
A current American Red Cross certificate for Lifeguarding/First Aid/CPR/AED
A current American Red Cross certificate for Lifeguarding/First Aid and either an American Red Cross certificate for CPR/AED for the Professional Rescuer or an American Red Cross certificate for CPR/AED for Lifeguards.
An equivalent certification from another organization.
Successfully complete the Online Session for the Lifeguard Instructor course, which consists of the following:
Orientation to the American Red Cross
Orientation to the Lifeguard Instructor Course and Precourse Exam
Successfully complete the Precourse Session (refer to the Lifeguard Training page for precourse swim requirement)
Must pass written exam with 80 percent or better
Register for a Water Safety Instructor Course
Water Safety Instructor Certification
The American Red Cross Water Safety Instructor Course trains candidates to teach water safety programs, including the Basic Water Rescue course, the six levels of the Learn to Swim program, and Parent and Child Aquatics.
Water Safety Instructor Certification Course
ODU Student $225 | SRWC Member $250 | Non-Member $300
The Water Safety Instructor Class trains candidates to teach water safety programs, including the Basic Water Rescue course, the six levels of the Learn to Swim program, and Parent and Child Aquatics. To be eligible for the instructor class, candidates must complete the prerequisites listed below.
Be at least 16 years of age on or before the last day of the course
Be able to Demonstrate the swim skills listed below
Complete the online precourse before class
Attend and actively participate in all course sessions (including any assigned online content)
Successfully complete class activities, including the required practice-teaching assignments
Score a minimum of 80 percent (40 correct answers out of 50 questions) on the instructor course final written exam
Swim the following strokes consistent with American Red Cross level 4 stroke performance criteria:
Front crawl(freestyle)- 25 yards
