School of Data Science
Education at the Cutting Edge
At Old Dominion University's (ODU) School of Data Science, you'll learn to harness computational tools to uncover hidden patterns in vast data sets, transforming findings into actionable knowledge that drives problem-solving across diverse fields. More than just technical skills, our programs emphasize effective communication, ethical considerations, and the societal impacts of data science in a rapidly evolving world.
Collaboration is key at ODU, with unique partnerships and faculty-guided research projects that immerse students in real-world challenges. Our interdisciplinary approach, blending expertise from computer science to philosophy, fosters a dynamic, curiosity-driven learning environment. With a strong focus on innovation and critical thinking, ODU's School of Data Science prepares you to become a leader in shaping the future of data-driven decision-making across industries.
Why Data Science at ODU?
Reflecting the intricate and often interconnected nature of data structures, Old Dominion’s School of Data Science blends diverse academic disciplines—all while building a through line to discovery.
Thrive in Coastal Virginia
Located in the heart of Hampton Roads, ODU offers a vibrant environment for data science students to excel, benefiting from the region’s diverse industries and research opportunities.
Flexible Pathways to Success
With a strong foundation in data frameworks, ethics, and governance, ODU’s School of Data Science provides flexible pathways for specialization. Whether you choose to study online or in person, you can tailor your experience to your goals.
Collaboration & Innovation
As leaders in data science, it’s up to us to tackle today’s challenges so we can pave the way for future generations. At the School of Data Science, we accomplish this through collaboration with national labs, including the NASA Langley Research Center, the Thomas Jefferson National Accelerator Laboratory, and more.
Blended Expertise
Our school has more than 80 faculty members who offer expertise and mentorship so ODU students can thrive both during their studies and after graduation. Their wealth of knowledge and willingness to experiment lead to exciting opportunities, bridging subjects as seemingly disparate as history and engineering.
