Click on your user icon in the top right
Click "Profile"
Click "Programs" in the left menu
Under registrations, find the class you wish to cancel
Click the three dots to the right of the class registration
Click "Cancel Registration"
How do I become a member of the SRC?
Visit the Student Recreation Center member services desk to complete an application for membership. Have a government-issued ID and form of payment ready. Learn more about membership options on our Membership page .
How do I cancel my SRC membership?
Submit an online membership termination form . See our membership policies for details on cancellation timelines.
How can I join a sport club?
The first step is to contact the club directly for information on the practice schedule. Contact information is found on our sport club webpage. Next, you will need to complete the Acknowledgement of Risk form for each club you are interested in joining and a Sport Club Physical. Next, you must show proof of medical insurance to a sport club staff member, pay club dues to the sport club PayPal account, and finally complete a baseline concussion test which will be emailed to you after all previous steps have been completed.
See our Sport Clubs page for more info.
How do I sign up for personal training?
Fill out the Personal Training Inquiry and Health History forms on our website. After submission, you will be contacted by someone on the Fitness & Wellness team to complete your registration. See our personal training page for more info.
How much are guest passes?
$7 per calendar day. Guests must be 18+, accompanied by a current ODU student or faculty/staff SRC member, and abide by all rules. See our Membership page for more information.
Who can use the Student Recreation Center?
If you're currently enrolled as a student, your access to the Student Recreation Center & University Fitness Center is included in the student activity fee. Access for new, incoming students begins August 16 for the fall semester. Non-students must purchase a membership. Memberships are available to anyone 18 or older. Special pricing available for ODU affiliates.
See our Membership page for more info.
Can I bring a child?
No. Per our age policy , only individuals ages 18 and older are permitted to use the facility, unless participating in a designated program such as summer camps or swim lessons. Childcare is not available.
What is the pool size and temperature?
The J.C. Scrap Chandler Pool is 8 lanes, 25 yards long, with depths between 4 and 15 feet. The temperature is set between 78-80 degrees because it is a competition pool. Learn more about the pool here .
I'm not experienced in outdoor trips. Are your trips for advanced hikers only?
No experience is necessary to climb our indoor climbing wall or attend an OAP trip. Climbing Wall Orientations and pre-trip meetings as well as highly trained staff ensure that new participants feel confident and comfortable.
Learn more about the Outdoor Adventure Program !
Can you fix my bike?
We have a Bicycle Learning Lab where a trained student is available during specific hours to teach you how to repair your own bike. Tools are available, but parts must be provided by the customer. The Bicycle Learning Lab is open during Outdoor Adventure Center open hours.
How can I rent outdoor items like a tent, sleeping bag, kayak, etc.?
Visit the Outdoor Adventure Center during open hours to rent your equipment. Rental equipment is available for ODU students, all SRC members, and non-member ODU Faculty/Staff. Daily rentals can be rented for up to 11 days at a time. Rentals will incur a late fee equal to the daily rental price for each day that the rental is late.
How can I play Intramural Sports?
Intramural Sports programs are included in student activity fees at ODU. The only exception to this policy is golf due to the use of an external facility. Visit our website to view upcoming games and register for a sport at IMLeagues.com/ODU.
How can I play video games at the Monarch Esports Arena?
Current ODU students can drop-in for gaming hours at the Monarch Esports Arena, which is open 12 p.m. - 8 p.m. each day of the week (except holidays and when the Webb Center is closed). If you're interested in joining a varsity Esports team, email us at recwell@odu.edu for more information.
Visit Esports for more info
What resources are available for developing healthy habits as an ODU student?
Our Health Promotion office has several educational events and workshops on topics like sleep, nutrition, sex, stress, alcohol, tobacco, cannabis, and more. All events are free and normally come with some freebies, too! Visit the Health Promotion webpage on our website for upcoming events and info.
